What's really interesting about this
approach is like I use this all the
time. Uh and I do in slightly different
flavors, but the idea is like the more
assumptions that you can bake in ahead
of time and the more correct your design
is, the more likely it is that your
implementation will be correct. It's
[music] 307% the dumb zone detection.
Generally, the less context you use,
that's that's a smart zone. So once you
start hitting like 40 50 70 80 90%. It
it's not that you're in the done zone,
you're just being less efficient with
answering questions.
>> Yeah. you're you're getting worse. If
your if your problem is really easy, you
can solve things in the dumb zone. The
harder your problem is, the more you
want to optimize for doing most of the
work in the smart part of the context
window. By the way, here's the here's
the learning test output that got added.
So, we actually have like the observed
output from the test, which shows
exactly like how the state machine of
the internal quad thing behaves when we
feed additional messages into it. So,
this is super valuable. This did exactly
what I wanted.
Hello everyone. I'm Bipal. I'm one of
the [music] co-hosts of AI that works.
Every Tuesday, Dexter and I get together
and we like to go talk about AI stuff
that kind of works. I work on BAML which
is a programming language for building
AI pipelines. And this is my co-host
Dexter who works on human layer and has
been known for context engineering.
>> Amazing. Uh incredible intro. And today
we are going to do uh a very fun segment
that we do uh roughly once a month uh
called No Vibes Allowed where we are
going to put a bunch of this stuff into
practice and we are just going to live
stream me and Vib collaborating on a
feature in uh one or both of our tools
that we work on every day. So you're
going to get a peak under the hood of
how we build uh using all this stuff
putting it all into practice. Uh so
today uh I guess we can get into it. Um
we are going to be building um if you've
seen other live streams we use a tool
called uh Riptide uh which is the
working title for the human layer IDE uh
named TBD uh but if you hear us say
Riptide or code layer that is what we
were talking about. So I'm going to pull
this open. Riptide is basically a
manager workflow thing. Um just to just
to walk you through kind of what we're
doing here. Um I'm just going to launch
a Cloud Code session here. Um, and
essentially what you're going to see is
a demo of what we're going to build
today. So I can say this, I can say, you
know, bash sleep 10. And then the issue
that we have with this is I cannot
actually uh if I want to send another
message when you're done sleep again.
There's no way to cue this. I can
interrupt the model and send another
message which will cause this like
interruption thing to flow through the
tool call pipeline. But what we really
want is the ability to cue a message.
Does that sound right, VBOV?
>> Exactly. Because one of the most
annoying things that I love to do in
other agent systems is I press enter and
it waits until it's done and then cues
it on.
>> Yep. And we've actually done uh an
episode before about interruptible
agents and how to build message queuing
and how to decide when and how to
interrupt and what to provide in the
interruption message. Right.
>> Exactly. Because interruptions are
slightly different than queuing, but the
technology stack is the same.
>> Yep.
So, I'm just going to get this ready
real quick. Um,
I'm just going to make sure we have the
latest main pulled. Okay, we're there.
Um, and then basically what I've done is
uh to prep for this episode is I've
actually done the early parts of the
workflow. So, we've talked about a
little bit about um kind of the the
workflow steps and I'm actually going to
pull um so we have this long workflow of
going from research questions through to
research through to design. We're going
to walk through this. We've walked
through this on previous episodes as
well. Um, since the last time we did one
of these episodes, we kind of only made
it through to the structure outline and
the planning phase. We didn't actually
ship any code. I have actually gone
ahead and gone through to the design
discussion. I haven't looked at it yet,
but just this morning I kicked off a
job. So, um, if we come into Rip Tide,
we've created our research questions.
Um, and you can come see here's the
ticket that I wrote which has a couple
comments between me and Kyle of like,
hey, we want to support message queuing
using the cloud agent SDK.
And so those questions were used to
create a large research doc which kind
of outlines how we use the async
prompting, how the state machine for
sessions works,
um the states in which we allow you to
send a new message, the interrupt flow,
the continue session flow, all this kind
of stuff. Um Vibb, do you want to go a
little bit deeper on any of this stuff
or like you're you're kind of familiar
with the tool and the architecture. So
>> yeah. So um I'll hop into the doc really
fast just to catch people up on what
what we're going to be doing.
>> Yeah,
>> I'm at the bottom Dexter.
>> Yep, I got you.
>> So this ID uh and today what what the ID
allows us to do is you can press this
button and you can hit interrupt
interrupt
while the process is happening. That's
the only way that you can actually go do
things. I think the the default that
we're trying to go do is make it so the
default here changes from interrupt into
Q. And of course, you should still be
allowed to interrupt as before.
>> Yeah,
>> but by default when you press enter it
should just add the message on and wait
until the system is done and then
proceed onwards. This isn't that hard
especially because we're living in a
single process machine that makes it
life much easier. We're not doing a
distributed system. So some of the race
condition stuff is kind of handled for
us for free which is kind of nice. And
then the only other question to ask is
how do we make it so that it's very easy
to modify the cued messages? How are we
allowed to cue multiple messages at
once? Do they all can get concatenated
together as a single message? Like what
happens in the queueing behavior there?
Um, but otherwise like I think this
should hopefully be a straightforward
task and hopefully people can get a
pretty good idea of how we would
technically what the difference is
technically between an interrupt and a Q
and we'll get to talk about some of the
technical concepts as well.
>> Yeah. And just to kind of demo how this
works maybe briefly in the cloud code
CLI itself. Um, I can launch claude
here. I could say
bash sleep 10 and then I can say when
you're done sleep again.
>> Yeah.
>> Uh and so that gives the message. Yeah.
This is the behavior we want to
implement. The cloud SDK supports it and
we've done some research. Um and I even
had our one thing that's really fun is
you can actually have claude I think one
of these actually did like a rip gp
through the SDK source code itself
um
>> to go find it. see to go find actually
just like the types
for let's see yeah cloud agent SDK. So
we looked in node modules and actually
like went through and found the types
and the the interfaces and some [snorts]
of the code inside cloud is minified but
you can at least explore the types
itself.
>> Yeah. Uh, Riverside is not open source
as of right now, but it's it's a you can
go ahead and actively sign up for the
weight list and then get access to it
pretty easily. Yes,
>> especially for people on the show.
>> Yes. So, um, I've gone and created our
design discussion um, which was just a
session um, here used the create design
discussion skill went through and did
some analysis and then we've built this
design discussion doc. So, I haven't
looked at this yet. Um but one thing I
want to do before we look at this is I
know that we don't have we talked a lot
about learning tests and about how do
you create feedback for uh claude to
understand especially libraries which
are closed source like the cloud code
SDK the the wrapper parts are open
source but the binary itself is not. So
we really really like to build some what
I call learning tests here which um
uh let's see let's find one here. So
this is an example where we're actually
going to run the cloud agent SDK and run
it in bypass permissions and like make
some assertions about how like what
sorts of messages and JSON come out of
this. Does that make sense?
>> Yep.
>> So I've actually primed it as well in
another session of just like cool read
the design discussion and then um
and then basically like come up with a
proposal for proving how this stuff
works. And so one thing that we found
was like our we do have a streaming
input test but it uses a timeout and it
doesn't actually test that you can like
cue a message. So I think um this is
probably the right one. So, I'm just
going to come on here and um um can you
just create exactly one test where the
model has a tool approval for the bash
tool and ask it to do bash sleep 10 and
then immediately cue another message
that says, you know, when you're done,
sleep again. We'll actually do bash
sleep 3 just so the test runs more
quickly. Um but let's get this running
and let's get enough example code that
you're able to um update the design doc
with any findings um with how the SDK
actually behaves.
Does that make sense?
>> Yeah. And again, these models are really
good at pattern recognition. So really
what Dexter you're doing here is you're
helping you've built a pattern in your
repo that says we use this opaque tool
called cloud code that doesn't really
document very well its behavior. So in
order to deal with that we have a
pattern for how to explore the SDK in
the form of learning test. We talked
about this aentic back pressure.
>> Yep. uh uh like either last two episodes
back and then when now that the model
can just replicate it doesn't have to
innovate anything it's literally
replicating its existing learning test
and most importantly you're using the
same terminology there called learning
tests
>> so like you're using the same word so it
knows exactly what to do replicates a
pattern really fast the harness knows
what to make happen so then what's
happening now is if it is able to go and
confirm something about the queuing
behavior it should be able to give you
all the design information you need on
your end
>> to make that behave properly.
>> Right? And this is kind of like one of
the one of the challenges with this
whole like planning workflow and we
talked about this in the in in the back
pressure episode, but like what happens
if you have some assumption because you
read the docs but the docs were wrong or
misleading or you misunderstood them or
Claude misunderstood them. Like you're
not going to find that out till you're
like two phases into your implementation
and then you're going have to go rewind
and redo all of this work. So, this is
kind of a an opportunity to jump back
and kind of do some like there's there's
a couple flavors like there's research
from code,
>> there's research from the web, and then
there's like research from like proofs.
B, I call them proofs or learning tests
or whatever you want. But there's like
multiple different ways to build up
knowledge about what is true about the
world, whether it's my codebase or
external things before we decide how
we're going to approach building
something. What's really interesting
about this approach is like I use this
all the time uh and I do it in slightly
different flavors but the idea is like
the more assumptions that you can bake
in ahead of time and the more correct
your design is the more likely it is
that your implementation will be
correct.
>> Exactly. You want to minimize minimize
the chance of surprises because then
you're like deep in a thousand lines of
code changes and you have to try to like
ren your way out of it.
>> Exactly. And now imagine a scenario and
there's this I mean Amazon's famous for
leadership principles but like and I
know they're a meme almost in a lot of
scenarios for I know them but there is
one that I I personally abide by really
well which is just that great leaders
are right a lot and the fundamental
matter is like the way that you get
right a lot is you make really good
decisions up front and when you're when
you're right it's not that you're good
because you're right. It's that when you
are right, you move so much faster than
any other competition because you don't
have to go back and fix your mistakes.
So what ends up happening in coding is
the more the less mistakes you make even
though it feels slower
actually the way faster that you move
because you're not backtracking. And
backtracking is the hardest thing to go
do. Even even though now in cloud code
you can rewrite the whole system from
scratch. If you're going to make a
mistake, you will you will literally
just move way slower. And especially if
you make an architectural mistake, then
you'll move even slower. And if you if
you detect that mistake 5 days later
after you already merged it, then you're
still going to be even um make even more
mistakes along the way. Like you really
want to minimize the chance of mistakes
and you want to be technically correct
whenever possible.
>> Yeah. It's like decisions take not a lot
of time and have a lot of impact.
Whereas execution can take a lot of time
and so if you waste time in execution
when you could have just made better
decisions then uh you're you're not
going to make as much progress as
quickly.
>> Exactly. So like that's why I think most
people uh get like this learning test is
going to be phenomenal because once we
know exactly how to use the cloud code
SDK for queuing
>> and it's confirmed with a test that it
works that way the design doc here is
trivial.
>> Yep. Well so I will say you mentioned
this is not a distributed system. This
this really is a distributed system. So
the architecture here is like you're
entering a form in a UI which then
stores things in an API which has a
database of like cued messages and then
the demon is actually like fetching
those and then relaying them down to
cloud code multiple cloud code sessions.
>> Yes.
>> So we will have some interesting
infrastructure stuff to go through here
>> but it's not you don't have the same
race conditions that you have across
network packets.
>> That's true. Okay.
>> That's what I mean like uh networks
packets coming in and out of order in
various ways. Like it's basically
the order of delay here is like sub a
mil. It should be like one or two
milliseconds.
>> Yep.
>> Which gets rid of a lot of like the
human the human pressed enter and oops I
I pressed enter again before the message
came back to me on round trip what the
state of the world was.
>> Yep. Um so this is going to keep working
while this is running. Um we can pop
back to our kind of main design I'm
going to archive that one. we can pop
back to our kind of main design
discussion and just start reading this.
And I'm actually going to create a uh
anyone can view link and I'm going to
send this to you Vibb quickly in the
chat if you want to kind of like skim it
on your own.
>> Perfect. And then while we're here, do
people have questions? Uh have other
people built queuing or interrupts or
other workflows along the way? I know
Josh, you asked a question. Uh is 37%
the dumb zone detection? Generally, the
less context you use, that's that's a
smart zone. So once you start hitting
like 40 50 70 80 90%. It it's not that
you're in the dumb zone, you're just
being less efficient with answering
questions.
>> Yeah. You're you're getting worse. If
your if your problem is really easy, you
can solve things in the dumb zone. The
harder your problem is, the more you
want to optimize for doing most of the
work in the smart part of the context
window.
>> Exactly. Exactly. That's like the best
way to frame it. All right. We're going
to be a little silent while we go read.
Um but um I will uh maybe perhaps
entertain people while you go read this
lecture really quickly.
>> Uh saying you're asking if Riptide is
like cloud code. I think Riptide is a
more analogous to a harness around cloud
code because if you think of cloud code
as a way of doing work, Riptide is more
like a workflow
on top of cloud code. It's a slightly
more opinionated in the fact that it
makes you do a little bit more like
thinking up front and helps you discuss
and go back and forth with the system.
Whereas typically with cloud code, even
in plan mode, the default um work uh
workflow is like when you do cloud code
planning, it produces a plan and that's
often it. I see most people just hit
straight enter, clear context, go
onward. And that's because most people
don't actually read the plan in detail
>> because it's not designed to be read in
detail. Like you're let's be real, no
one there's a reason we don't use less
to read uh the less command and grab to
go read our terminal. very very few
people are reading like vamp most people
like to open neoim or like some other ID
to go read code because UIs are nice um
and reading faster
>> what what what I'm doing when I'm going
through this doc right is I'm like
making sure it understands what the end
state is of like okay yes we need to
show a message in the UI they're running
in they're delivered in order the demon
picks them up the existing flow works as
is
um I would also add one thing here which
is like for desired end state we want to
make the default action um when you
command enter while the session is
running to Q message. And so there's a
new button for Q message and then
there's another button that will be
persistent for interrupt. And so rather
than a single interrupt and send button
while the session is running, we'll have
those two buttons. So let's highlight
that in the desired end state and
reflect that throughout the doc.
>> And again, this thing wouldn't have been
caught unless Dexter was actually
reading the doc, which is why sadly
Dexter is That's why he's got to be
silent for some time cuz like there's no
way to talk and read at the same time.
>> I could I could talk through kind of
like open in my like just basically like
talk thinking out loud of how I'm like
reading this or what I'm looking for.
Like we have the desired end state and
then the next level down is patterns to
follow. Right? We talked about how AI
models are really really good at finding
and understanding and like matching the
patterns that already exist in your
codebase. And so one of the reasons I've
built this into my design doc system is
basically because I want to get a brain
dump of what the model is thinking and
what it has seen because if the model
goes and starts coding you might catch
it in the middle of coding like oh you
picked up the wrong pattern. Now, our
codebase is only a couple months old, so
it's got mostly good patterns.
>> But when we work with people who have
very old codebase, have been around for
10 years, and have five different ways
of doing something like let's say an
atomic uh SQL update, we want to make
sure that we're doing those inserts
correctly.
>> Exactly. And like the idea is like
>> and really it's like look, one bad GP in
your cloud code uh like code research
system is all it takes for your system
to be bad. like that. Great leaders make
right decisions. That's one bad GP and
you've made the wrong decision. And if
you're not even reading it, let's be
real, we don't read all the code
generates. That's just slop that gets
amplified over and over and over again.
And that also has consequences because
next time the odds of getting that bad
GP go up because like it's like, oh, you
just reinforce the pattern in a very
modern way in a more recent time frame
saying that pattern was acceptable. It's
like, of course, I'll do it again. Your
codebase will always regress to the
average of the best pattern and the
worst pattern in the codebase. It will
just have more of the bad ones and also
maybe sometimes pick up more of the good
ones, but it will just
>> you say your code will probably converge
on the most common patterns in your
codebase. It converges to the mode more
so than anything else.
>> Yeah,
>> because like whatever it finds more
often is what it works.
>> Um, Alvaro, you've got a great question.
How do you handle when agent when the
agent is constantly getting into issues?
I've been asking it to update its
progress and blockers in an
implementation summary file, but is
there a point where I try a different
approach? Do you persist these progress
files somewhere after you're done with
the done with the task? So, one of the
other nice things about Riptide is you
do get all these files preserved in a
nice little like sharable link. So, like
for example, Dexter just shared that
with me.
>> Well, I can tell you our workflow, I
don't actually check in these plan files
everywhere into my repo. Plan files are
throwaway.
>> Research files are throwaway. They're
like task specific. It's very similar
like um if any of you have ever worked
in like a large company like for example
like when I worked at Google we wrote
design docs all the time but we also
never referred back to design docs after
the implementation and that's
>> the code base as soon as it's shipped
the code is the new source of truth.
>> Exactly. So every time you want to go
learn what the system does like sure
maybe you'll give a design doc to a new
hire that came in to understand it
conceptually but I would never tell a
new hire to be like this design doc is
what is true.
>> Yeah.
>> If you want to know the truth read the
code. So, and that's why we always
generate the research on the fly as
well. We don't we don't really rely on
like codebased context, high level.
>> And you definitely don't want to
preserve. Yeah. You It's just so cheap
and like timewise and moneywise to go
determine um the research that it's
literally not worth uh storing this
information.
>> Yep. So, here's
>> by the way, here's the here's the
learning test output that got added. So
we actually have like the observed
output from the test which shows exactly
like how the state machine of the
internal quad thing behaves when we feed
additional messages into it. So this is
super valuable. This did exactly what I
wanted.
>> Yeah. Uh Joshy, you've got a question.
Um
can you specify new patterns? Uh for
example, let's say I'm creating a V2 API
that's diff that uses a different
pattern than V1 API. How can I say use
the new V2 pattern? Well, that's really
easy. You just tell it use the new V2
pattern and like cloud code when it does
the research like as a part of your
ticket definition or your original task
that you do before performing the
research. You just say we strongly
prefer V2 over V1. Then you let it
discover the research, produce the
design doc. Then you read the design doc
to confirm that it made that critical
design decision of your choice saying it
better be using V2, not V1. and it might
still reference V1 as like an older
pattern, but it still says, "Hey, V2 is
the more consistent pattern that we want
to go use." Uh, but it's it's twofold.
It's one about telling it to do it, and
two about actually just verifying that
it did do it. Again, it's very similar
to hiring a junior engineer. Like when
you're first implementing a design dog,
you have a design dog that you wrote as
a more senior engineer, you hand it off
to a junior engineer,
>> they're almost definitely going to mess
it up somehow.
>> Like almost definitely. And that's not
because they're bad. It's probably
because you missed something in the
design dock or you had some small thing
that was slightly off or you had a
bakedin assumption that was in your head
that you didn't feel necessary to write
it down. So how do you validate that
system? Well, you go read their system
like whatever they implement that you go
read and validate that it matches the
doc at least for the most critical
parts.
>> Well, and the inverse is also true,
right? So like Kyle, my CTO is like kind
of the end all owner of this codebase.
And I actually don't know the answer to
like like in in this codebase, you
consider me junior to Kyle in terms of
like ownership and like opinions and
like having the last word on how this
stuff builds to make is built to make it
the most maintainable. I actually don't
know the right tradeoffs between option
A and option C. Um, so I'm just going to
take the recommendation, but if we
weren't live on a podcast, I would
actually just like copy the link to this
and send it to him. Actually, I think we
get them autolin to the to the linear
issue, but I would just copy the link to
this and send it to him and ask him to
like tell me which of these options is
correct or if we want to actually do
like an option D that's not even
surfaced.
>> Let's what are the options here?
>> So, the option one is basically we're
going to add a new uh collection
watching the conversation events table
which is like
>> it's a little bit over. So, conversation
events powers all of the events in this
stream. Um, so it's the the user
messages that the user enters merged
with all the events we got from the
cloud SDK. So we already kind of use it.
Um, I'm actually like,
>> can you add more detail on the tradeoff
>> between a option B is a terrible idea.
It's like putting a cute messages JSON B
array which makes it really hard to doc
really hard to do atomic updates on that
one.
>> Yeah, exactly. Yeah, that's a no-go.
That's like clearly a nogo. Option C is
basically create a new table in a new
collection. Um, I think like option C is
a little cleaner slash safer, but option
A seems simpler. I just don't know what
the consequences will be of overloading
that table even further since it's
really meant to be a like display logic
for what shows up in the session. Well,
in some ways, Q messages actually are
good to display the logic because they
are basically also going to be displayed
and the state of the message is going to
be displayed. If you remember back to
the Q and interrupt episode,
>> I actually that's the right way to think
about it. There's a single source of
truth.
>> Yeah, my take is that we might want a
message Q table because that'll make it
also easier to show in the UI and then
we would just only show cued messages
matching some filter that like they
would get flagged as once they were
delivered and acknowledged and we have
the explicit life cycle. So, I'm leaning
towards C, but add a little bit more
detail and we'll come back to that one.
>> Oh, I meant like keep it in the same I
actually meant keep it in the original
one and then just basically make all
edits also like incremental on top of
it. So, and then whenever you process
the next event, you pop off all the all
the cute events and you process them all
together.
>> Yeah, I mean I think we can do that with
option option A or C. So, I'm going to
>> I'm going to just actually fire that off
and it's going to go do some thinking
and searching. And while that's
happening, I'm going to come to question
two.
>> Okay. And someone's got another question
really fast. Is there a way in human
layer to specify this? There's nothing
specific. I mean, human layer is more of
a process. Like rip tide is more of a
process of how you use cloud code than
like, hey, there's something uh and the
process itself is highly opinionated,
but it's still flexible enough to do the
thing you need to go do. So like if I I
Dexter, you you build the product. Like
I at least I can I would personally hate
it if they started opinionating very
specific things like the way my code
should be structured.
>> Oh yeah. No, we won't do that. The whole
point is like
>> I don't want to make decisions about
your codebase. Claude should you should
not want Claude or Codeex or any agent
to make decisions about your codebase.
The idea of this design discussion doc
is that like it forces the human to do
the highstakes decisionm about the
architecture of the system. But
everything up until this point is
something that AI is very good at
automating of going and reading a
100,000 lines of code and figuring out
which ones are relevant and asking
really good like architecture questions.
But you the human are in the driver's
seat. And again like we don't even have
to answer option A or option B for this
question. We can we can even um we can
even say oh actually I want to do option
C or like kind of resteer the whole
thing. But this is your chance to before
the model starts working and coding or
even building a plan like do brain
surgery on the model and like update the
the patterns it's going to follow and
the approaches it's going to take before
we go further down this uh this process
to um
>> the structure and how we're going to
break this down into tasks and then the
actual code we're going to write and
then actually going and shipping it. So
for context, one of the things that I've
been doing is we've been reworking our
our proto system to be a lot more robust
so that you can construct more arbitrary
types and do more interesting things in
BAML. And part of that was doing a whole
migration on basically redefining our
proto. And what that really meant was
some of our types like media types and
like prompt types aren't available to
you inside the language of your choice.
We're they are available in a slightly
fuzzy way. We're making it much more
wire friendly and relatable. So I
actually went through and this was
exactly what this was. We had a V1
migration. We had a V1 version of the
portal and a V2 version of the portal.
And there's two ways that people can
approach this. One way is you have the
same codebase and you kind of create a
you kind of um make it so you kind of
kind of keep both alive together. That
Joshy is the problem you're probably
running into is like how do you tell the
model that you need to keep one thing
alive or not? Well, the way that you way
that we found best work to actually
solve this again because writing cheap
code is so cheap, they're actually just
creating a whole new folder at a at a
new top level and almost a new package
and just writing all the code in the new
package. And then anytime you have code
that's in the old package that needs to
be migrated over, you just migrate it
over and it's so so cheap to go
implement this. It doesn't matter. And
then I just went through the approach
and I basically just went through and I
did the research questions. I did the
and it came up with a bunch of questions
along the way about like what it needs
to go answer. Then it went and produced
the doc for what it needed to go do and
understand the existing type system and
actually like pulled out everything
perfectly out of here. And once I did
that, then I spent the 90% of my time
basically just iterating on this one
file over and over and over again until
it produced a really good design doc.
And you can actually see like once it
produced a design doc and I iterated on
this for quite some time, there's the
chat log is pretty big. Then I actually
did another thing which is it produced a
structured outline for what I'm actually
going to go code. And the problem is
this is a massive refactor. So it has
massive consequences across the whole
codebase. Um and a lot
>> you have to be really thoughtful about
the order you make the changes in
basically right.
>> Not not just that but I need to be
complete and I really can't have any
bugs because if if I have bugs like
testing this is like really freaking
hard because I'm basically redoing the
whole like serialization layer. So what
I do is once I've produced the layer,
not only do I read this structured
outline really carefully,
>> but then I do this really silly thing
which is I start like multiple prompts
that do this what's inconsistent missing
for the structured outline and I just
have the model rip on it and I discuss
design decisions and then after that
happens
I ask it again
what's missing inconsistent for the
structured outline. I just keep on doing
that and
>> you're basically Ralph wiggleaming your
structure outline. You're just throw
more tokens at the problem and tell it
to think more and it's giving you a more
complete result.
>> Well, no, it poses design question
design decisions to me at every single
stage of like, oh, here's what's bad,
here's what's good, here's what's bad,
here's what's good. And then I actually
think about each of these individually
>> and then I update the structured outline
and then I produce a plan. And guess
what? Once I did this, I actually
oneshot the whole implementation. I
never I never had to go edit this code
again.
And this was like maybe I I can I can
pull up the PR um just to show you how
many code was this
>> 17,000 lines of code added 13,000 times
removed.
>> Wow.
>> This was roughly what this was. But it
one shot the whole thing.
>> That's sick. Did you Did you check in in
between the phases? Like did you do any
verification or you just have it run the
test at the end of each phase? I just
had it run the test and it went through
and then and then just to be very just
to be very very transparent code rabbit
uh which is our CI which is the thing
that we use for validation actually
found a bunch of bugs and like I don't
know if I batch our code ra specifically
all these tools are roughly the same and
pretty good but like code rabbit's good
enough for us and it found some bugs we
addressed them I did a bunch more pushes
and then I merged it but like end to end
time you just look at my commit time
because this will give you a better idea
of
>> like when did I make the first commit
>> of how many commits there were so there
like roughly 18 commits I'm making this
Um, and this was two weeks ago all the
way to five days ago. So, I made some I
I got wasn't working a while ago and
then I slowly made the whole prototype
buffer stuff. So, like this is roughly
the workflow. It's just more about like
really quickly iterating in a really
good way.
>> Uh, that was a great that was a great
detour while I'm over here uh coaching.
>> Yeah. Um, so for question for question
one, we remember I asked it to add a lot
more detail and it kind of like figured
out, okay, this is kind of noisy.
There's no host ID column. There's a
bunch of stuff. So I actually like
steered it towards option three. And the
cons are like dual infrastructure, dual
right, and host ID. Like this is
actually nice. This is going to make the
system easier to maintain and debug. So
I'm going to proceed with option C. Um,
for question two, it's just asking about
um like how do we pass this in? And it's
like one of them is proven to work by
the learning test. So I'm like cool,
we're going to do that one. Um for the
API endpoint, I'm want to extend the
continue endpoint because when I send a
I don't want a separate endpoint for
queuing. I just like want an endpoint
that is like send a message and let the
API figure out the business logic
>> and then you just give it like a boolean
of like a continue or interrupt like Q
or interrupt.
>> Well, we we already have an interrupt
endpoint. And so I was like, okay, do we
extend the interrupt end on point? Do we
extend the continue endpoint or do we
add a new endpoint? And I'm like I like
the idea of like cool there's just a
thing to send a message and
>> I would unify all three of them. I would
literally just unify all three of them
to a single message that comes in with a
boolean
>> that says like that comes in with like a
state of like what kind of method you
have and like one of the states say is
auto
>> that actually would I think that that
will actually simplify your logic
because again when you're designing the
system what do I think about what I
think about is like what I want is I
want the UI to be dumb and the dumber
that I make my and this is also
applicable to everyone building like a
chat app on their website the dumber
your UI the easier it is for you to
consolidate state and business logic on
the back end when your server side which
has a couple of benefits which means
that when you eventually make your
backend agent friendly and I believe
everyone will eventually make their back
ends agent friendly
in that world now you have a uh really
nice world where your your because your
front end is dumb even the dumbest agent
can use your back end without a mistake
because the logic is consolidated in one
place not in two
and like even here like the back the
front end is basically sending a request
or a preference. It prefers that you
cue. It prefers that you continue. It
prefers that you interrupt. It prefers
that you auto. But let's say like the
back end has finished a message and you
spent Q. Q automatically becomes a
continue on the back end. Or let's say
you hit Q and there's some race
condition in the back end for that
reason. Continue automatically becomes
Q. Y
>> it's a it's a preference on the UI side.
So that deals with that's how you deal
with race conditions in this world.
>> Yeah. So, I've said basically we're
going to pass an enome which is like Q
or continue or interrupt or auto. And
basically, if you try to continue while
it's running, you'll get a 400. If you
try to queue while it stopped, you'll
get a 400. But if you do auto, it will
basically route it to the right
behavior.
>> I Yeah, I would actually not even do the
400. I would just make it do the right
thing.
>> Interesting.
>> By default, so that way there's any lag.
If there's any lag, then you just like
>> like default to the best known state.
just have a boolean interrupt
bool that determines whether we
>> instead of the enome. Yeah, I like that.
Um
>> cuz it's it's simpler, you know.
>> Yeah.
>> And like simplicity, I think, is key
when designing these kinds of APIs
because you're not really queuing.
You're just pressing enter.
>> Yeah.
>> And you're it's just a question of do
you press cancel and enter or just
enter?
>> Yep.
And again, the logic is keep your front
end dumb. Keep your front end as dumb as
possible.
>> Yep. Um,
>> Russ, you asked a really good question.
If engineering code is so cheap, why not
build both or even all the options? Test
which one works better?
>> Well, it is cheap, but it does still
cost finite time and finite brain power.
So, let's say I could build all of them
in parallel. I would still have to
evaluate all of them in parallel.
Instead, an alternative way to spend
that same time is to build another
feature in parallel to building this
one. And that is a higher value prop
than building one thing seven different
ways. Especially if I know
architecturally the right decision to
make already.
>> I'll have to explore bad paths.
>> You're going to have to make that
decision either way. Um like which which
approach are we going to use? And so
like yes, sometimes if I don't know what
the right what the right approach is,
then I maybe I will like what we did
here is we forked off and did a learning
test because I'm like, "Oh, I want to
try a couple different approaches and
find out which one actually works here
versus the um versus versus just picking
certain architectures and stuff. Um, and
I'd rather review it at this stage,
which is a shorter, you know, 200line
artifact, than go have to review two
versions of the same thousandline pull
request
>> and test that code end to end. Like,
>> if you really have no idea, then you
should go figure that out by building
little PC's or building prototypes or
like one thing we do a lot is we use
storybook. Um,
let me see if I have this in my history.
>> Yeah, the premise is just like look, you
have to do the work no matter what. It's
just like how early can you do the work
and the earlier that you can make the
right decisions the better. The less
data you need.
>> You basically want to make decisions
with the least amount of information
possible.
>> Yeah. So another thing we'll do for like
back pressure and like design up front
is like here's a bunch of like rich
complicated components that we were
working on that like instead of waiting
until the implementation and building
the whole feature end to end with each
version of this we actually just like
okay for UI stuff that the agent's not
really going to be able to have good
like back pressure or like bring taste
on it. we can actually uh do this uh do
this in storybook and kind of like carve
off the parts of the decision making
that we're gonna do. Does that make
sense? I don't think we've talked about
this by Bob. We were going to do an
episode on this as well
>> because like if you it's just again it's
about moving decisions to making the
fastest possible decision in the right
system.
>> Yeah. Yep.
>> Um so
>> and Jensen you asked the question of
like did we cover where the docs live?
Yes. They don't live anywhere. you
delete the docs after you merge this in
because it's pointless.
>> So technically like I can open this in
my editor and it does exist on my file
system and I can edit it here.
>> But the idea is like I have a ton of
like go to archive tasks. I have a ton
of archive tasks and like these are all
things that I finished working on and
like yeah technically I could come look
at these old docs but you you don't want
to think about managing them. You kind
of just want them once once you're done
with them.
>> Yeah.
>> Go back to traditional companies.
Traditional companies have millions of
design docs all over them. No one reads
them. And that's okay.
>> Yeah.
>> Like we survived in software.
>> Exactly. Design docs are purely an
execution concept. They're they're to
make it so that you don't make mistakes
by accident because you made some
fundamental architectural decision that
someone else could have known if they
just read one sentence in your design
doc. That's the purpose of all these
docs is to make sure that when cloud
code actually executes, it makes no
mistakes.
Yeah. And it's it's just like it's it's
it's so much easier to iterate on the
design here of like, cool, we want a
unified continue endpoint. Uh we want
two buttons in the UX. It's just like,
okay, now I know I have high confident
that the agent's going to do what I
want. And I didn't have to wait for it
to start writing code and then have to
try to rest steer it or start over or
check out the code again because it's
just going to it's it's it's just it's
dumped out its understanding. And we are
aligned.
>> Gotcha. How far do you think we can get
in the implementation? How close are we?
Um, we can certainly
>> turn on the auto advance and I can rip
it through the next couple phase. Have
you tried this yet, by the way?
>> I have. It's great. I I auto advance
through design discussions every single
time. It's freaking pointless to do
research with like a manual loop.
>> Um, so
give me the Ralph Wiggum loop that I
want.
>> I want to add that step. I want that I
have that iteration step that I do which
is like iterate on the structure because
I do that every single time I create
something really complicated and I've
had 100% hit rate with that.
>> That's actually the next thing is like
the inverse of auto advance is like cue
extra passes of just like go through the
research vet every assumption add more
detail find more things fill in more
gaps and you can do that at every stage
is basically just like cue another round
through it. Yeah, with like I really
like the message I have works really
well. Literally just what's inconsistent
>> uh missing and it works really freaking
well. I'll let you finish reading this.
There's like one more question. Brandon,
you comment that your team has
accumulated a lot of skills. I agree.
You should probably prune the number of
skills that your team is using to a
minimum set that you can get away with.
And the reason, and actually I don't
know your opinion, but the reason I
personally recommend that is because
your team probably can't even remember
all the skills that you have checked
into your repo. It's way easier to have
five or to seven skills that are
phenomenal and being used all the time
and actually being edited and maintained
in your codebase than it is to have like
70 of which all of them are one hop used
by each individual randomly in like
different totally different ways. And
this is how I think about all tools
actually is like people want to just
like give everybody everything and every
everybody figures stuff out and every
everybody's kind of going their own path
but like the things that give you
compounding returns on engineering teams
is like everybody is kind of using the
same things and they're all iterating
like every week your tooling gets a
little bit better and that's really
really hard if like you have 50 people
and like two tools are being used by
three people and six tools are being
used by some other people. So it's like
I would even say like like product
manager like the the the skills you
build for your team are products and a
good PM goes and looks at their usage
metrics and they find the features that
only like 10% of users are using and
they remove them from the product to
kill the features that are not getting
massive adoption and so I would focus on
a small number of things that everybody
uses that everybody I mean not every
right you may have some backend
engineers who never use your front-end
skill right but like get good adoption
on a small number of skills
Because then then you're like guaranteed
that like okay this is going to become
part of our culture and the time the
time we invest in making things better
is actually going to pay off versus like
having 70 things and not knowing which
one is going to which one is going to
help which people and not knowing where
to invest because you yeah
>> yeah prune prune prune prune prune that
is the magic word
>> cut scope iterate focus on a small
number of of skills but like
>> focus on your product not on your
engineering workflow like like your
engineering workflow like learn from
other people, leverage it and like copy
and paste. Don't reinvent. You will just
move slower if you do. Uh Jenn, how do
we deal with bike shedding or irrelevant
uh design discussions like security
stuff that comes up?
>> So, is this human to human or human to
agent? I
>> I assume agent. Like agents proposing
like stupid things. Um I suspect that's
because you're probably just not
prompting it well. I've actually never
had it come up with like arbitrary
that doesn't matter when I'm
doing like the workflow well. Uh, and
that's because like it really depends if
you're working in an existing codebase
or new codebase. In a new codebase, it's
actually very likely to come up with
that doesn't matter. But in an
existing codebase, it really just
follows the patterns that your codebase
has. So if you have like dumb unit tests
that basically check like no ops and
like things that don't need to be unit
tested, clawed code during the user
phase will be like, I need to add unit
test for every little thing that I do,
which is actually a drag, not a value
ad. If you're deliberate about what unit
test you add in, it will also pick up
that, oh, we only unit test this kind of
pattern.
>> And this is the interface we need to
unit test, not every interface
underneath the sun. And I and I think
that's really what it replicates. It
replicates the patterns that you already
have in your codebase. And if you have
no patterns in your codebase, that very
beginning phase, like the green field
phase, you have to replicate.
>> Yeah.
>> But 90% of code bases are not green
field.
>> And if they are like just you can just
prompt it, you can simply ignore that
concern. Yeah. Exactly.
>> But even if you have a Greenfield
codebase, it's going to become not
Greenfield within like 3 to 6 months and
then you're going to need to know how to
do this or you're going to have to throw
it out and rewrite it from scratch,
which like at the rate that code gets
written now,
>> depending on how careful you are. Yeah.
Um I'm going to talk about quickly
what's happening here. Um so this is
building. So we talked about like
basically like the design discussion is
figuring out where we're going. The
structure outline, how we do this, um is
basically like how do we get there? And
so like the models by default tend to
want to do what I call like horizontal
planning which is so I'm going to delete
all of this where it's like okay we're
going to do the database and then we're
going to do the service layer then we're
going to do the front end we're going to
do the API and then we're going to do
the front end and like before you know
it you're at the other side of 1200
lines of code and there's been nothing
along the way for you to test. And so
this is what I call horizontal planning.
The models love freaking doing this. I
don't know why. Um, and so what I have
found works really really well,
especially for larger features where
like you want to kind of check in and
make sure it's good along the way is we
do what's called vertical planning where
we will like take a slice and like mock
the API and do a stub frontend component
and then we actually build out the
front-end component on real data and
then we mock the services layer and we
wire the API through and then we do the
database migrations and then we add more
bit everything up. we wire everything up
and then maybe here we add some like
special like business logic stuff that
is like the meat of the issue but is
like the same way you would build you
wouldn't write 1200 lines of code and
not check on it. Um you would at least
run the test in between phases and you
might spot check a couple things in
between to make sure it's good. This is
the art of vertical phases.
Um, and so the idea of the structure
outline is like instead of reading the
entire plan with every code change, you
want to just kind of review the the
approach that is being taken. Um, and so
this is going to surface some of the
stuff from before and then it's going to
talk through it's like, okay, we're
going to make the schema and a message Q
table. Then we're going to make the
route and the collection. Then we're
going to like cue messages in the prompt
generator. And then we're going to do
this unified continue endpoint. Okay.
Interesting.
So the problem here is like we're not
going to be able to test this endpoint
until the very end. Like
>> I would rather
>> well so I would rather do the endpoint
first because then we can at least check
in the database that messages were like
inserted correctly and then we'll do the
actual logic that causes the cloud side
because like you can't test this until
you have a way to send the messages in.
So why would we build the demon side
before we build the API side?
>> Oh, interesting. I I see I see why why
you do that. Okay.
>> Because like basically like this is a
lot of complicated stuff. We're making
new database tables. We're making new
contracts. I want to be able to click
something in the UI and just go look
that a thing was inserted into the
database at least. And by I I mean I
mean Claude's I'm going to basically
like click the thing and then like
Claude's going to go check what's in the
datab in my dev database on my local
build. Um and then we'll go and actually
wire it through to the other side.
>> Yeah. And that's just like preference
for what for other people like why are
we doing this? Well, Dexter said a very
good reason. He's like, "I want to test
sooner, not later." And the sooner that
you can test the system, the better it
is. And if you have no way to test
something, then what Dexter is basically
betting on is not the fact that like his
design is right or wrong. He's just
reducing the probability that he has to
backtrack.
>> Yes. You want you want to optimize for
for being able to finding surprises and
finding incorrect things as early in the
process as possible. So like if this
front end thing looks like I want
to like get that looking right and make
sure I like the behavior there
>> before we go and actually wire in real
data because I want to not have to debug
the data layer and the front-end
experience at the same time. I want to
like test and val validate one piece at
a time.
>> I also want to chime in on like one
other point here. Like we're doing this
live on the podcast. We there's no way
Dexter had time to read this as
thoroughly as he would normally if he's
coding. So like part of that means well
if I haven't test I haven't read
everything super thoroughly I need to be
more rigorous about testing earlier
rather than later even more so than
normal. So even though in like my
example I showed you that I went all the
way through and like the plan just
executed one way through.
>> Yeah.
>> What I had to do was I had to go ahead
and actually read everything super
meticulously and you saw how many
commits it took to actually get to the
final point to make it work.
>> Yeah. But it was very meticulous here.
By moving the UI phase up and actually
making sure the database gets correctly
done, we're just reducing the risk that
any design decisions we made were going
to be incorrect along the way. And
again, there's again no right or wrong
answer. It's just a it's just a
preference based on what tolerance you
have for redoing work when something is
incorrect.
>> Yeah. And I'll sh I'll we won't actually
finish this today unfortunately because
I know Vib's got a hard stop. But the
way I think about this is like you want
to let me delete some of these things.
Um, basically like the more time you
spend on the plan
chance you have to backtrack. The more
time you spend on the like so vertical
is like the correctness of the plan,
right? The more time you spend on it,
the closer you can get it to like full
oneshotable.
Um, but the idea is like there's some
sweet spot where it's like, okay, if I
can spend 10 minutes and get it 90% of
the way there, then that's better than
spending an hour to get it 99%. Cuz
there still might be surprises. And at a
certain point, it's easier to read the
code and play with it than it is to like
stare at a thousandline plan doc. Um,
and so like this is actually split up
into a number of different probability
curves, which is like, okay, what's the
chance that you have to iterate on it
live? That's the area below this curve.
So that goes down the longer you do it.
And then what's the chance I might have
to like resteer and restart the
implementation and what's the chance I
might have to restart the design. And
it's like at every phase it's like the
the chance you will have to backtrack
goes down the more time you spend on it.
But you're never going to guarantee that
you can oneshot it. And so there's this
weird like optimization problem that I
think is like just takes a lot of
intuition of like how much time should
you spend at any phase making sure that
it's good versus like how how big of a
how much time will it waste if you have
to backtrack.
>> Yeah.
>> Does that make sense?
>> Exactly. And then David, you're asking a
really good question of like are are you
asking anyone else on team to review
these docs? Um I know Dexter clearly
said like if he had this question, he
would have norally sent Kyle to go look
at it. We kind of operate the same way
as well, which is the way that we we we
operate on our team is like by default
we just trust individual developers to
make good decisions. But that part of
that making good decisions is to
recognize when something is complicated
and to bring someone else into the fold
as they need to because it's impossible
for everyone to read everything. It's
just not worth it. But for really
complicated things, you want more pe the
more relevant people reading it whenever
possible.
>> Yeah. And it's optional in our process,
but like I am incentivized to send Kyle
this design discussion and have him
review this and help me answer the
questions because the alternative is I
make the decision. I make the decision
that he doesn't like and then I go spend
all this time building it and testing it
and playing with it and exploring it in
the um
>> in the um how do I say this? Like the
the implementation phase and then by the
time it gets to PR, it's like oh no,
this is all wrong. we can't make another
endpoint because of some random electric
sequence.
>> There's some reason like something or
something Kyle's working on right now
that's going to conflict with this
>> that's going to conflict with this. So
it's like basically everyone's like
complaining about drowning in like AI
developed PRs or like PRs written by
people with AI that are slop and like I
actually don't think the problem is too
many PRs. I think the problem is too
many bad PRs and like even even a 500
line PR like not a big one if it needs
20% rework that is like a huge like
>> mental and emotional burden on both the
submitter and the reviewer to go and
give the feedback and coach the person
and all this stuff and so it's like if
you can elim if you can maximize the
amount of time when like I send Kyle
this PR and he's like yep that's what I
asked for yes that's good yes you've
done that right because we aligned on a
lower stakes dock that I'm not attached
to yet because I haven't dumped all this
time into making sure it's right and
polishing it. That is hugely valuable I
think to any software team.
>> It's the same reason that like look you
just you want to you focus more on the
plan than you do on the code. You focus
more on the plan than you do you focus
more on the design discussion you do on
the plan.
>> Yep.
>> Bring people in earlier into the fold.
That's that's the magic. Bring yourself
in. Bring the agent in. Like spend more
and more time earlier on the fold making
good decisions. The better your
decisions, the better your output. It's
a direct onetoone correlation there.
>> This was super fun, man. Uh, thanks for
joining. I think we shared some some
interesting lessons. Uh, hopefully this
didn't just feel like a rip tie demo and
you learned a little bit more about how
we think and and and how we build stuff
internally. Um, so thank you all. Uh,
Vibb, any any last thoughts? Any big
takeaways here?
>> No. Uh, for everyone interested, next
week we're going to talk about how to do
PI redaction and how to actually design
a system both on the eval side and the
code side to go build that out. excited
to share.
>> Awesome.