AI SDK
The AI SDK is the TypeScript toolkit designed to help developers build AI-powered applications and agents with React, Next.js, Vue, Svelte, Node.js, and more.
Why use the AI SDK?
Integrating large language models (LLMs) into applications is complicated and heavily dependent on the specific model provider you use.
The AI SDK standardizes integrating artificial intelligence (AI) models across supported providers. This enables developers to focus on building great AI applications, not waste time on technical details.
For example, here’s how you can generate text with various models using the AI SDK:
import { generateText } from "ai";
const { text } = await generateText({ model: "anthropic/claude-sonnet-4.5", prompt: "What is love?",});
The AI SDK has two main libraries:
- AI SDK Core: A unified API for generating text, structured objects, tool calls, and building agents with LLMs.
- AI SDK UI: A set of framework-agnostic hooks for quickly building chat and generative user interface.
Model Providers
The AI SDK supports multiple model providers.
Vercel AI Gateway
OpenAI
Anthropic
Google Generative AI
xAI Grok
Azure
Amazon Bedrock
Groq
Fal AI
DeepInfra
Google Vertex AI
Mistral
Together.ai
Cohere
Fireworks
DeepSeek
Cerebras
Perplexity
Luma AI
Baseten
Templates
We've built some templates that include AI SDK integrations for different use cases, providers, and frameworks. You can use these templates to get started with your AI-powered application.
Starter Kits
Feature Exploration
Frameworks
Generative UI
Security
Join our Community
If you have questions about anything related to the AI SDK, you're always welcome to ask our community on the Vercel Community.
llms.txt
(for Cursor, Windsurf, Copilot, Claude etc.)
You can access the entire AI SDK documentation in Markdown format at ai-sdk.dev/llms.txt. This can be used to ask any LLM (assuming it has a big enough context window) questions about the AI SDK based on the most up-to-date documentation.
Example Usage
For instance, to prompt an LLM with questions about the AI SDK:
- Copy the documentation contents from ai-sdk.dev/llms.txt
- Use the following prompt format:
Documentation:{paste documentation here}---Based on the above documentation, answer the following:{your question}