Yeah. So I'll be talking about how my
own field of mathematics is uh changing
or beginning to change uh in the age of
AI um and maybe how it will impact the
other sciences as well. Um but uh it's
it's an age of change and uncertainty
which is something that we're not really
used to. Um in my field uh we are maybe
one of the most conservative fields as
far as um as far as change is concerned
um in that we really haven't changed our
practices in so many ways for centuries.
Um on the left here um I'm displaying a
textbook by by Koshi from exactly 200
years ago um introducing what we now
call the Kashi integral formula among
other things. Um and you probably can't
read it um at at that resolution but um
it reads it looks almost identical to a
textbook we would give our graduate
students today. I mean other than it's
in French rather than English and it's
not type set using a modern computer
language type setting language but other
than that um you know it's it's it's
completely usable uh today. Uh and that
continuity of mathematics is a great
strength of mathematics. We we use
results that are 200 years old 2,000
years old. You know I use the
Pythagorean theorem routinely in my own
work. Um and that's and that's fantastic
but it does mean that we we often do not
embrace trends as much as as other
disciplines. Um on the right is a coffee
table book by a photographer um Jessica
Wyn. Um so she was fascinated by the
chalkboards that mathematicians use. So
so we're almost the only um discipline
academic discipline that left that still
holds on to the blackboards and chalk.
Um everyone else moved on to powerpoints
and and whiteboards and and and
whatever. Um but uh but we still, you
know, I have I have six blackboards in
my in my own office. Um I love them. I I
will not give them up. Um but yeah, she
actually took photographs of of the of
mathematicians uh chalkboards and made a
nice little art uh coffee book out of
it. Um another way in which we don't um
we are different from the other sciences
is that we often don't collaborate. Um
so here is a just um scientific metrics
of how many collaborators we've had um
you know on average over the years and
it's sort of slowly gone up from say 1.5
authors per paper to 2.5 in mathematics.
But you look at the other sciences and
and they they are exploding. You know,
they're um embracing big collaborative
research projects and mathematicians are
lagging way behind. Now, it's it's not
because we're antisocial or not just
because we're antisocial. Um
there are there are systemic issues. Um
so, math projects traditionally have a
high barrier to entry. You you often
need a math PhD to even understand the
problem you're working on. um we need
our proofs to be 100% correct in every
single detail. So if you try to
crowdsource a proof and there's 100
contributions and one of them is
incorrect, you destroy the whole proof.
Um and the workflows we have, you know,
for example, um um working things out
together at a blackboard of chalk don't
scale to 100 people over the internet.
Um so but the other sciences are doing
that and and and they're flourishing. So
you know, are we missing out? Um so it
is beginning to change uh because of new
technologies um including AI although AI
I think is just a part of it. Um we are
beginning to to figure out how to do
large scale um projects. So if you like
um most of mathematics until very
recently has been sort of case studies
where you take one problem and you work
on it for for several months and you
produce one report on one problem and
then you move on to the next problem.
But we're beginning to do surveys where
we can we can handle we can study
hundreds or thousands of problems at
once. We may can't solve all of them,
but we can report various interesting
statistics about these populations of
problems. Um, we're beginning to broaden
up our participation be beyond sort of
the math PhD set. Um, um, so citizen
science is flourishing in other uh
disciplines. Uh, we're just beginning to
have citizen mathematics happen. Um, and
we are uh it's it's not it's just on the
verge of of of happening, but we are
beginning to figure out how to properly
use machine learning and AI to actually
help us. We've discovered lots of
incorrect ways to use machine learning
and AI, but um we're we're just
beginning to get some um um some useful
mileage out of these tools. Um there's
one secret source that makes this all
work um which is formal verification. Uh
so this is um a special type of computer
language which roughly speaking can take
a mathematical argument and check if
it's correct or not automatically. Um
and uh this reduces a lot of um it
filters out a lot of rubbish which was
previously blocking uh these kind of new
workflows from happening. So there are
many many examples of this. Now I only
have time to give one and a half
examples uh in in this presentation. Um
so the first example is something that
that I have been uh I launched last year
at at UCLA. Um it's something called the
equational theories project. Um and it's
something I I did with 50 collaborators.
Um most of whom I actually didn't meet.
I only I I I only met through this
project. Um and most of them are not
actually profession professional
mathematicians. A lot of computer
scientists um um students, grad
students, undergraduates, I think even
some high school students um they just
got involved in this um open
collaborative project. It is a project
in algebra. Uh I don't have time to
actually tell you u what the project is.
Um but there's um uh we we sort of
procedurally generated 22 million
problems in algebra. Um so a typical one
is is uh um does the commutive law imply
the associative law? If you have an
operation such that a * b is the same as
b * a can you deduce that a * b * c is
the same as a * b * c. Turns out the
answer is no. Um but we generated 22
million questions of this form. Um any
individual question maybe a grad student
in algebra could sit down for an hour
and work out yes or no it's true. But
there's 22 million of them. I don't have
22 million grad students. Um so you
could say oh let's crowdsource this.
let's let's open this up. Let's let's
let's let's get the general public to to
to contribute. But then someone has to
grade 22 million algebra problems. I
also don't have time for that. Um so uh
these projects were basically not
possible in the past. I mean um the the
previous examples of this type of
project I could find in the literature
sort of classified 20 problems of you
know and did a study. Okay, but this is
22 million. Um but we we managed to
complete this project in in three
months. every single one of these
statements we have a proof or disproof
uh whether it was true or false.
>> Um so um so we had to sort of invent new
workflows to do this. Uh um so uh we
have a big GitHub where we store all the
proofs and they have to be formalized in
a common language so we we can verify
them automatically. Uh we used the proof
assistant language lean for this. Um we
had a a very active discussion board
where we had both human generated
proofs. someone would pick one of these
22 million implications and prove it,
post it, and then other people would try
to copy it. Um, people would would run
computer programs to to generate to see
um they would they would attack all 22
million of the problems and they maybe
their program can handle 100,000 of them
at a time. Um, and people would go back
and forth maybe converting a a human
proof into a lean proof or a computer
proof into a human proof. Lots and lots
of of back and forth um uh which we kind
of uh improvised, but it it it worked
really well. Um I think there are
several factors that made this
particular project successful. Um one
was that it was very modular. Um so by
its nature it broke up into 22 million
related problems and so people could
sort of claim some subgroup of these
problems and work work on those. Um and
or maybe um some people would specialize
in writing human readable proofs and
other ones would specialize in
translating those into a computer
readable proof. You didn't have to be um
to know every single part of the
project. You could you could specialize
in just one aspect. um much like in a
modern software development project for
instance. Um another um thing that that
really helped was that um uh we had a
good metric. We had talks earlier about
how once you have a goal and and and
sort of as a set score a loss function
if you wish that you can start
optimizing on then um uh uh that really
sort of opens up new ways to to to run a
project. So um at any given point in the
project saying on the 16th day there are
these 22 million implications. It turns
out that on day 16 we' already cleared
out all of them like we resolved all of
them except for 888. Um and then um so
people would would claim some subset of
those and and work on those. Um this
allowed for people uh the project to
decentralize. Um so spontaneously some
participants would would would just sort
of um work on some idea um and uh if it
worked it would add some more
implications to the database and this
number would go down um and so everyone
was just working to move the needle and
and some some ideas pushed this number
down a lot and some some didn't weren't
so successful but we didn't have to
coordinate you know you do this you do
that. I mean we did some task allocation
but um there was also a lot of
spontaneous um um um u sort of
independent activity by by by
participants which was which was um
really quite uh quite quite fun to watch
actually. Um and then the final uh
secret ingredient that I said was um was
form formal verification. Um and the key
to this is that it breaks the trust
barrier. So um previously in in
mathematics if you want to collaborate
with other people you either have to
check every line of what they what they
submit or you have to to trust that what
they do uh that they have a good enough
reputation that probably their work is
high quality enough that that that um
that it should go into into your paper.
Um but we were getting submissions from
all kinds of people that we never met
before. Uh but they all had to pass
through this formal verification and so
we could accept anonymous contributions
or untrusted contributions. Um and uh
you you could really um because of the
way um these this form of verification
works um you could have really precise
discussions like um um so someone tries
a proof and uh say a human proof and
then they they try to convert it into
lean and the proof has nine steps and
eight of them work fine and then there's
this one step that doesn't quite um
formalize properly but then you can have
a discussion with that human author.
There's one very very precise micro step
that needs clarification. Um, and this
is a a kind of discussion that you can
do without ble, but um often you have to
spend lots of time um specifying what
what are um what's what's the notation,
what's the common language. Um sometimes
people don't quite understand why you're
stuck on this one step if you can't
specify exactly what that step is. But
um these languages allow for extremely
precise technical um conversations on at
a very atomic scale. And you don't again
you don't need to understand the entire
project in order to um to proceed. Okay.
So that's uh one of the the projects. Um
okay. Yeah. And um you know while we did
use some moderately fancy AI most
particularly these things called
automated theorem provers um actually it
was the more mundane technologies things
just like GitHub and this discussion
group at Zula but just basic
collaboration platforms were just
incredibly um incredibly useful and
essential.
Okay. So uh that was one of the
examples. I have time for half an
example. Um it's work in progress in
collaboration with with Google DeepMind
but I was hoping to announce it uh but
they're still going through the approval
process the paper so I I can't tell you
exactly what we've done but I can tell
you um in broad terms um what Google has
some prior work. Um so we are large
language models are becoming
increasingly powerful. They can solve
olympia problems. uh they can sometimes
answer quite deep um math questions but
they make mistakes and um it's it's
really uh and and often at at really
basic mistakes. So so even um the latest
models you ask it a simple arithmetic
question and sometimes it will get the
arithmetic right and sometimes it won't.
Here's one where it got 7 * 4 plus 8* 8
wrong and then you it was called out and
they apologized and actually gave the
right answer eventually. Um so every
mathematician has tried using these and
has eventually found that the
unreliability is is too um uh is is is
just too great of an issue. Um but if
you can combine these um um unreliable
outputs with a verifier, something that
can actually check whether your output
is good or not, um then then it becomes
useful at least potentially. Um and
sometimes you can make it go in a loop.
So you you you make the LM generate
mathematical output. You test it. If
it's if it works, great. If it doesn't
work, you send the error messages back
to the LM and they try and tries to
correct it. Um and um yeah, so um many
people have have tried ways to make this
work and with various degrees of
success. Um I've been working with Deep
Mind on their latest tool of this type
is called Alpha Evolve. There are other
things. There's also a generic algorithm
under the hood. Um but this has been
somewhat promising. Um so it's already
been able to solve certain classes of
math problems. Um so we released a
preliminary paper a few months ago where
we managed to improve uh various bounds
on things like um packing problems. Uh
so if you want if so these are sort of
toy examples of math problems. Things
like if you have 11 hexagons, what's the
smallest hexagon that that can contain
all 11 at once? Um and there were
previous records on on on what the best
record what the best packings were. And
by by by having LLM try random things,
get feedback, evolve the um the code, um
they were able to to to to get uh uh to
to get numerical improvements. Uh these
are by themselves are just sort of test
cases. These are kind of finite
dimensional optimization problems which
are just a very small subclass of um of
of all the math problems that we care
about. Um but uh we have some recent
progress on on also working on on
infinite dimensional optimization
problems. Uh but unfortunately I can't
tell you more about them just yet. Uh
but stay tuned. A few weeks we will get
a paper out. Um so uh just to wrap up um
so these tools I think they're just
beginning to to transform um our
profession. Um they're already helping
in many ways. Uh I already I and many
others use AI routinely for secondary
tasks. Writing computer code is so much
easier now. Um performing literature
review. I think this was also mentioned
as as as a as a already a very useful um
use case right now. Um there are
isolated examples of feeding um data
sets to AI and getting new interesting
mathematical conjectures and finding new
patterns. Um we can't do that
systematically yet but there are
isolated proofs of concept. Um and
they're a good kind of universal
translator. Um I think it it it has
helped commu the general public. we can
communicate with the general public or
with with other scientists because our
jargon is not quite the same as their
jargon but but we can now translate more
effectively with with AI. So there are
already many um decent use cases of of
AI currently. Um but we are going if to
get the more advanced um applications we
really really need to rely on rigorous
verification to to to filter our use.
Basically, we can only use the AI as far
as you can trust his outputs um or at
least check them any further. And it's
just too it's just too risky. Um I think
they they can help individual
mathematicians somewhat, but I think
they're um um I think they'll be most
effective when combined as part of a
broader collaboration. They can fill in
all the gaps that the the collaboration
is is missing. Um I also think that um
you know the most obvious use case of
mathemat of AI for these is to kind of
replace mathematicians doing what they
do best which is work on hard problems
with you know um um with creative new
techniques. But there's actually um an
orthogonal use of AI which I think will
be much um uh more productive at least
in the medium term uh which is that
there's there's all these there's this
long tale of um medium difficulty
problems like these 22 million algebra
problems which we just don't have the
manpower to attack with humans but um we
we can get AI just to do a a first pass
through them prove all the lowhanging
fruit and then escalate any difficult
problems up to to human experts. Um
we've also seen um people in the panels
discuss those that kind of paradigm. Um
in general I think AI should be used to
to to to not um compete with the with
the pie of of of of work to do that
humans already do but to enlarge the pie
and create more tasks that what was the
the phrase that um I think make make
more objectives economically feasible.
Um so there are a lot of of of promising
applications but it's very very
situational. uh it's it's it's not just
a plug-and-play. We have to to know how
to use it and when to use it. So, thank
you very much.