Cabin

Designed by Impallari Type, Rodrigo Fuenzalida

 Sans Serif — Humanist Technology — Variable Feeling — Calm Feeling — Business Feeling — Rugged Feeling — Loud Feeling — Happy
Whereas disregard and contempt for human rights have resulted
Select preview text:
Latin
arrow_drop_down
Language
arrow_drop_down
Variable Axes
refresh
Italic info
Weight info
list
400
Width info
list
100
Heading 1
remove
28px
add
format_color_textformat_color_fill
format_align_leftformat_align_centerformat_align_rightformat_align_justify
AaLl
format_line_spacing
Whereas recognition of the inherent dignity
add_circle
No one shall be subjected to arbitrary arrest, detention or exile. Everyone is entitled in full equality to a fair and public hearing by an independent and impartial tribunal, in the determination of his rights and obligations and of any criminal charge against him. No one shall be subjected to arbitrary interference with his privacy, family, home or correspondence, nor to attacks upon his honour and reputation. Everyone has the right to the protection of the law against such interference or attacks.
Everyone has the right to freedom of thought, conscience and religion; this right includes freedom to change his religion or belief, and freedom, either alone or in community with others and in public or private, to manifest his religion or belief in teaching, practice, worship and observance. Everyone has the right to freedom of opinion and expression; this right includes freedom to hold opinions without interference and to seek, receive and impart information and ideas through any media and regardless of frontiers. Everyone has the right to rest and leisure, including reasonable limitation of working hours and periodic holidays with pay.
Styles used above
Size: 28 Italic: 0 Width: 100 Weight: 400 Heading 1
Size: 22 Italic: 0 Width: 100 Weight: 400 Heading 2
Size: 18 Italic: 0 Width: 100 Weight: 400 Heading 3
Styles
Type here to preview text
48px
48
Regular 400
Whereas recognition of the inherent dignity
Regular 400 Italic
Whereas recognition of the inherent dignity
Medium 500
Whereas recognition of the inherent dignity
Medium 500 Italic
Whereas recognition of the inherent dignity
SemiBold 600
Whereas recognition of the inherent dignity
SemiBold 600 Italic
Whereas recognition of the inherent dignity
Bold 700
Whereas recognition of the inherent dignity
Bold 700 Italic
Whereas recognition of the inherent dignity
Regular 400
Italic
Regular 400 at 48px
Whereas a common understanding of these rights and freedoms is
Regular 400 at 36px
No one shall be held in slavery or servitude; slavery and the slave trade shall be prohibited in all their forms.
Regular 400 at 32px
Everyone has the right to an effective remedy by the competent national tribunals for acts violating the fundamental rights granted him by the constitution or by law.
Regular 400 at 21px
No one shall be subjected to arbitrary arrest, detention or exile. Everyone is entitled in full equality to a fair and public hearing by an independent and impartial tribunal, in the determination of his rights and obligations and of any criminal charge against him. No one shall be subjected to arbitrary interference with his privacy, family, home or correspondence, nor to attacks upon his honour and reputation. Everyone has the right to the protection of the law against such interference or attacks.
Regular 400 at 16px
Everyone has the right to freedom of thought, conscience and religion; this right includes freedom to change his religion or belief, and freedom, either alone or in community with others and in public or private, to manifest his religion or belief in teaching, practice, worship and observance. Everyone has the right to freedom of opinion and expression; this right includes freedom to hold opinions without interference and to seek, receive and impart information and ideas through any media and regardless of frontiers. Everyone has the right to rest and leisure, including reasonable limitation of working hours and periodic holidays with pay.

When you have some text, how can you choose a typeface? Many people—professional designers included—go through an app’s font menu until we find one we like. But the aim of this Google Fonts Knowledge module is to show that there are many considerations that can improve our type choices. By setting some useful constraints to aid our type selection, we can also develop a critical eye for analyzing type along the way.

Choosing web fonts: A beginner's all-in-one guide

A checklist for choosing type

Emotive considerations for choosing typefaces

Choosing reliable typefaces

Exploring typefaces with multiple weights or grades

Exploring width in type

Choosing typefaces that have optical sizes

Pairing typefaces

Pairing typefaces within a family & superfamily

Pairing typefaces by the same type designer or type foundry

Pairing typefaces using the font matrix

Exploring x-height & the em square

Adding fonts to Google Docs and Slides

arrow_forward_ios