For those that don't know, this is
Coding Garden. Awesome streamer on
Twitch. He's obviously on the Syntax FM
podcast. If you don't know them, great
little channel right here. You can go
check this out
>> about my thoughts and uh you can tell me
what your thoughts are.
>> Also, this title is called AI Coding
Sucks. And I just want to let you guys
know I am going to do my first best
effort I could possibly do um to try to
become the best at cursor and truly
really feel out the AI. I'm I'm I'm
asking questions. I'm learning how to
write my own rules. Okay, I'm I'm trying
to go deep here. I really am trying to
learn to use AI the best possible way I
can possibly use AI. And this video
title I feel akin to currently, but I am
willing I'm willing to try. Okay, sorry
in the comments whether you agree,
disagree, whether you're feeling the
same way, etc. But what's up? CJ here.
Got a little bit of a different video
today. I'm just going to rant. I'm just
going to talk about my thought.
>> Can I pause really quickly? this syntax
TV in the background that's like a
cathode ray tube or appears to be a
cathode ray tube. This is actually like
super badass. I whatever that TV is, I
want that. That is super cool thoughts.
And uh you can tell me what your
thoughts are in the comments, whether
you agree, disagree, whether you're
feeling the same way, etc. But I used to
enjoy programming. Now, my days are
typically spent going back and forth
with an LLM and pretty often yelling at
it or telling it that it's doing the
wrong thing and getting mad that it
didn't do what I asked it to to begin
with. Um, and part of enjoying
programming for me was enjoying the
little wins, right? You would work
really hard to make make something,
build something or to fix a bug or to
figure something out. And once you
figured it out, you'd have that little
win. you'd get that dopamine hit and
you'd feel good about yourself and you
could keep
>> How many of you have that experience
right now? How many of you have that
experience? Because it's something that
I've been fairly highly resistant to. I
don't I just I just hand program
everything and it it feels much better
because every time I've tried to do it
the other way, I always feel really uh
frustrated because I don't because I'm
just like no mistakes. I like both. I I
feel like maybe I could like both. I
mean, I get that dopamine hit. You get
the dopamine hit. Yeah. I mean, the hard
part is that I feel like I'm always
going to be a guy that wants to just
hammer on a keyboard, even when it's not
as efficient. That's why I've really
enjoyed inline AI completion because I
don't care about like I don't I don't
need to type the for loop, but I like to
structure everything manually. But hey,
I'm always willing to learn. Again, this
is why I'm setting up my own cursor
rules. This is why I'm in here like
giving everything I can trying to build
up like this is exactly how you build an
element in this game to be displayed on
the screen. So therefore, I want you
then I'm going to go through and test a
whole bunch and try to create up a bunch
of mock scenarios so that way maybe I
can go really fast. And if I can go
really fast, honestly, building the
actual UI is not the thing I'm concerned
about. I think I think people get too uh
what's it called? They get too dogmatic
about their approach. The at the end of
the day, your goal is to enjoy your
craft and get better at it. And if
you're not achieving those two things,
then you're doing something wrong. Okay?
So if you can use AI and get better at
what you're doing, then knock yourself
out. But if you're not enjoying what
you're building and you don't feel like
you're getting any better for it, better
at it, you're like building you you are
setting yourself up for long-term
heartaches, right? It it it trust me,
it's actually going to be really really
hard in a year when you've continued to
trudge through difficult concept after
difficult concept while feeling like
you're never learning while constantly
feeling like you're never actually
deriving any sort of enjoyment out of
it. It's going to be hard. As simple as
that. going. Now, I don't get that when
I'm using LLMs to write code. Um,
essentially once it's figured something
out, I don't feel like I did any work to
get there and then I'm just mad that
it's doing the wrong thing. And then we
go through this back and forth cycle and
it's not fun. It's not fun at all. One
of the reasons I like programming is
because it is predictable. It's logical.
It is knowable. You can look into the
documentation for something or look
under the hood and look into the source
code or decompile something or watch
network traffic. Like you can figure
things out. And I love, by the way, I
love where this argument is going. This
has been this has actually been one of
the hardest transitions I've had from
like I don't mind inline completion
because inline completion is guessing
what you're going to do in this specific
line based on the context and everything
around it which is largely correct just
like the weatherman who's predicting one
hour ahead for weather but like more
larger swast of generated code I always
just dislike that because even though
it's close you don't like you can say
the same thing twice in a row and you'll
get two different answers. I don't like
the stochastic nature of statistical
prediction models. It is very bothersome
for me even though I want to get better
at it. Right? I want to become the best
at it so that when I say it's the piece
of crap, I still think it's a piece of
crap. Right? Like I want to, you know,
I'm fine researching the thing I don't
like until I get the best at it. But I
totally understand.
>> Once you have a good idea of how a
programming language works or how a
system works or how an app works, you
can be sure that it's going to work that
same way the next time you look at it.
And that's because uh computers are
logical systems. Programming languages
are are logical formal logical
languages. And that works really well
with my brain. Now, when we're working
with AI and LLMs, it's not predictable,
right? You can use the exact same prompt
and get a different response every
single time.
>> Re-watched, obviously pre-watched, book
them, Dano. I've already already seen
it.
>> I think this is where some of my
frustration is coming from because I am
trying to do the same thing. I'm trying
to develop workflows and be a prompt
engineer or a context engineer, but
doing the exact same things is producing
different results. And honestly, that's
not what I signed up for, right? And you
could chalk it up to skill issue, but
just just look look at the look at the
evidence, right? So, if if you're
chronically online like I am and you're
watching all of these these tweets that
come out from people and posts that are
just talking about, oh, you have to
write this specific prompt or use this
specific workflow and it'll start
working. And if you're not doing it,
then by the way, I think that this is
actually a sign of an early adopter. So,
there's this whole argument going on
right now in AI, which is super stupid,
which is like if you don't learn now,
you're going to be left behind. Well,
guess what? When I don't learn now, I
also don't have to learn a bunch of
these stupid niche things you should
say, right? Let me give you a quick
example. Did you know that back in the
day with JavaScript, you would not
create a new array? You would set your
current arrays length to zero because by
mutating the length, it would actually
empty the items in the list. This was
the fastest way to get a new array. You
would never create a new one because you
would actually have visible lag on the
website if you had to do this a whole
bunch. And so, as a programming
technique, we would do this. Now, you
probably never knew that because you
were not part of the old JavaScript. Did
you need to know that to learn
JavaScript today? Absolutely not. In
fact, it would be counterintuitive. In
fact, I bet you it's probably even
slower than doing it by creating a new
array. And so, this whole idea that if
you don't learn it now, you're going to
be left behind. And oh, but also, you
have to do these incantations to make
the AI act correct. Like, I shouldn't
have to say make no mistakes, and I
shouldn't have to say be secure for it
to make no mistakes and be secure. Isn't
that right, dog? is never. That's right.
You know the facts. You know the facts.
Tell me the facts.
>> Um it's true. There's just no way that
you should have to learn these things.
And so this is the early adopter tax. I
know you're meant to get some sort of
theoretical increase in your speed, but
the reality is that you're probably also
experiencing a theoretical slowdown, a
cost of importing this new technology
because you have to do a bunch of these
weird like magicians moves behind the
curtain. Don't mind the man behind the
curtain. Trust me, this is actually
going to work. Okay, now this is what
you say. You say no mistakes, but you
got to say it at the end. And then at
the beginning, you got to like say it
this way because if you're like too
positive, it's like it just doesn't
work. But if you're negative, it feels
like it can't do it. So you got to like
really make sure that it know like what
the hell are you saying? That's what you
shut the hell up.
Shut up. Also, I do want to say one more
thing. If I see one more person say
they've gotten 100x improvement from
using an AI, right? like you actually
are in like the 70 to 90 IQ, 70 to 60 to
80 IQ range. Like nothing can improve
you 100x. You have to understand that.
That means 3 and 1/2 days of you on an
AI is equivalent of you fulltime for a
year. If you can't produce what an AI
can do in a three three and a half days
in a year, you're either lying to
yourself, you're lying to me, or you're
an actual walking buffoon. like a
legitimate someone who needs you're
feeble-minded, I believe, is the
technical IQ term for it. You are
feeble. That's it. It's ridiculous.
Absolutely ridiculous. And it's a skill
issue. I've tried it. I've tried so many
different things. I found things that
have sort of worked, but then they stop
working or I've been working with in a
specific model like GBT40 or GBT 5 and
all of a sudden I'm getting different
outputs, right? Because I'm not in
control of that LLM. It's a It's a magic
box hosted in the cloud that can change
at any moment, but it's always called
the same thing. GPT5 or codeex whatever
or sonnet 4.5, right? They put this
little name on it, but that doesn't mean
it's going to be the same every time.
They're constantly tweaking the model,
which means you're going to get
different outputs for the things that
you're running. Um,
>> true. No,
>> you can actually visibly see his
frustration in that. And I feel bad for
that because it is very annoying. Like
that is super annoying that you have to
like learn the new magic phrase that
helps juice the AI to do it correctly.
Oh, you're using too much context. Not
enough context. How much context? Well,
context has changed. Oh, with the newer
models, you want to be at this point in
context. You're at this point. That
sucks. Wrong wrong answer, buddy. Just
like, dang, I don't want to live that
life, you know?
>> Um, I'm looking at my notes cuz I'm
trying to rant, but I have I have a lot
that I want to say.
>> Um, I have a note here. I mean, I don't
know how how you're going to agree with
this, but it kind of feels like AI based
programming has become kind of like a
religion, right? You have all these
these big popular people on Twitter.
They're kind of like the the religious
heads that come up with ways of working
and tools that you should be using. And
if you follow their their patterns and
you follow their tools, then magically
your code will start to work. And if you
use these specific incantations or or
prompts, you'll get specific types of
outputs. But it it's just not
predictable. You don't get those same
outputs. Um, and people chalk it up to
skill issue, but I've worked with it
long enough and tried it long enough
that um I'm I'm kind of done. And to
prove it to you, I want to just go
through all of the things that I've
figured out and all of the things that I
do when I'm working with AI to write
programs because you can tell me, am I
missing something? And also, maybe you
could learn something because I've I've
been spending a lot of time uh with
these tools and trying to figure out
workflows. So,
>> now I've only read the headlines. I
haven't gone through the uh multiple
100page report of the Dora report, but
it's a Google funded report that's like
modern software engineering, which I
largely dislike. Normally they have a
bunch of findings that I find to kind of
be dumb but nonetheless they've recently
at least in their I believe for their
2024 year to 2025 year uh setup has said
that software has become more unreliable
and it's become slower to ship since the
introduction of AI. I believe that is
what the headliner is. Now I haven't
read the studies. I don't know how much
of that is actually true. Blah blah blah
blah blah. Don't hate the person that's
just reading the headlines. I'll read
the whole report at some point, but you
get the idea. That's kind of crazy,
right? Cuz I was promised efficiency,
yet there's reports saying that the the
rainbow might not be as much gold at the
end, right? There is this kind of
religious nature to um to LLM. There's
people that swear by it, right? Like
you'll you'll meet like uh Claude 45
maxis versus Gypy 5 maxis, right?
They're like, "Oh, no, you got to use
this one. Oh, no, you got to use that
one. No, that's the one. Oh, you're
using that one. Oh, gross. Ew.
Right. And it's just very funny to watch
this kind of back and forth of which one
is actually better, but it's all based
on like someone saying it's so much
better. They're like, "Dude, it's so
much better." Like, "Was that even me?
How do we even I don't have an objective
measurement for this?" Here's what I
know. If you're working with Claude or
any other editor, um, or so like Cloud
is a CLI tool, you could use an editor
like cursor or whatever else. They
typically have some kind of markdown
file you can put a bunch of information
in. So with claude, it's cloud.md. You
can also use agents.md and cursor.
They're cursor rule files. But basically
the idea with these files is you can put
a bunch of things in there that try to
make the work with this AI more
predictable, right? You can talk about
what tools do you use, what p.
>> By the way, this is one of those funny
moments. You know that meme that is like
I wish AI would uh do my laundry, but
instead it does my art. You know that
post about like I wish AI did the things
I didn't want to do. Instead AI does all
the things that I want to do. Isn't it
funny that when you're setting up rules,
we've just been tricked into writing
documentation. So, we get to write
documentation. We don't get to write
code anymore. Like that again, it's like
all the good parts are going away and
the parts I don't want to do. It's just
like, what the hell is this? What? How
did I get tricked into doing it? Just do
my laundry already. Okay. Do my laundry
and make me a sandwich, because I
want to code. I I want to dance and I
don't want to go home, okay? Hey, I want
to be teach. That's it.
>> Patterns do you use? What uh libraries
do you use? What dev commands there are?
What's the architecture of the app? You
can put all of this in these files and
AI is supposed to use that to steer it
in the right direction when it's working
on your app.
>> Y
>> um and also AI tools can actually
automatically generate these. So you
don't even have to work hard to build
out these files. It can generate them.
You can validate them. And now in an
ideal world, you have told the AI how it
should work and what it should do. In my
experience, it doesn't it doesn't listen
to what I've put in those files. Um, and
I think this comes down to context
bloat, which is a whole other thing. But
I have worked so hard at crafting like
the perfect claw.md and the perfect
cursor rules. But still, every now and
then the AI will drift and run commands
I told it not to or do things in a way
that I told it not to. And I have no
>> I just recently had Claude actually do
the internet meme of deleting my test. I
couldn't get something to pass a test.
It's like, "Hey, fix it for you." And
the diff was literally the test file
deleted. This happened just a week and a
half ago. Unironically, the meme that is
like Twitter, I actually experienced. It
was fantastic. I didn't believe it was
real. Like I always thought that was
like the joke. You know what I mean? Cuz
it's too funny to be true. That's AI
being based fix for this. So that's
extremely frustrating. Um the other
thing is when you're working with AI, uh
don't ask it to just code without making
a plan first. So this is my approach to
building and and and working on things
with AI is I'll ask it to build work uh
I'll ask it to come up with a plan. So
I'll say plan this out. This is what I
want to build. This is what we want to
do. Let's come up with a plan. And
typically I tell it to write that into a
markdown file. So plan.mmd because I
don't want to lose that in the chat
window. I want that to be basically a
part of my codebase that describes what
we're building and and what's coming
next. What are the different phases? And
AI is pretty good at coming up with
this. And then I have to do the work of
validating it and making sure that it's
a good plan. And then from there,
>> again, tricked into reading
documentation and now specifications.
Damn, crazy.
>> There um don't just immediately say,
"Okay, the plan is good." You have
obviously have to approve it and then
gradually work through the plan. You
wouldn't just say, "Okay, now go
implement this 30-step plan." You would
work on one step at a time. You would
tell the AI to work on a specific phase.
You'd validate its output, and then
you'd move. I guess we're all QA and pro
project managers now. All for the
pursuit faster. All for the pursuit of
moving faster. I love it. Okay. Anyway,
sorry. This is just me. Hey, that's me
being negative. I'm sorry. I'm sorry.
I'm sure it's really great. I'm sure
being a product manager or a project
manager is really fun.
>> I've done this for lots of apps. Um, and
it it works for some, but again, every
now and then it starts to drift, right?
This the same prompt gives me a
different output or the rules that I
gave it, it starts to drift from it. It
doesn't follow those anymore. Um, and
there are there are tools that have been
built that allow you to work in this way
specifically, right? So, Kira was one of
the first to popularize it, but GitHub
has come out with I think it's called
like SpecKit. Uh, you might see on the
channel that um Scott is actually
working on his own list of uh open code
commands and agents that kind of like
give you this more structured flow for
working with AI. And I think it's like
it's uh it's it it basically makes you
feel like you're doing the right thing
because you're gradually working through
steps. But there are so many places
where an AI could do the wrong thing and
you don't realize it because you come
become so accustomed to kind of just
like accepting the output or or not
completely validating everything. And so
for me, specri flows are decent, but
they're not perfect. And I've gotten
better results by just writing it myself
and not having to depend on
>> I bet you there's a number that exists
that's like what's the average amount of
code or lines of code someone can review
over the frequency of bugs that get in.
I bet you that that there's a graph out
there that exists that's just like once
you exceed a certain amount of of like
lines of code in a period of time,
you're just going to be like less and
less good at seeing bugs. Almost every
time I let Super Maven generate more
than 10 lines, I discover a bug in it
later. Yes, I typically only let it do
uh what's it called? Uh one line at a
time. I do not like multi-line
autocomplete. Uh PR blindness has to
exist. Yes, it does have to exist. And I
think one of the big reasons why is that
when you look at code, you can
structurally look at it, but the thing
that makes code hard is the shape of
this is where functional bros actually
have like a real good argument is that
shape of the data is a very important
role. And knowing how the shape of the
data like moves over time is really hard
to have in your head. You almost always
have to debug, right? like you you have
to either write the code yourself or you
have to debug to really have that like
strong sense of what the actual stuff is
going on. Yeah, Elixir mentioned why
this is why sometimes I sit there and
think maybe functional bros do have a
real point here which is that you can
just look at the ins and outs of that
specific function and judge its
correctness whereas you don't have to
have near nearly as much in a mutationy
world versus a clone uh immutable world.
I don't know just hey just throwing that
out there just thinking of it. You got
it. I know. Hey, I re hey real
recognizes real in certain places. The
only problem about functional code is
when they do wait dude. When they do
finally ship something for real, man,
industry is going to collapse. We're all
going to be functional bros. But that's
going to be a while, but I'm sure it's
going to happen. I cannot wait for that
first product. It's going to be
incredible. We're all going to be
high-fiving the AI. The other thing is
you typically work on the smallest
feature possible, right? Don't tell AI
to go off and build your entire app with
a single prompt. you're you're prompting
it with very specific things that it
should do and not giving not allowing it
to do big full sweeping changes. Right?
So I've I've worked with AI this way a
lot as well. Uh and then the other thing
is getting AI to validate itself. So
right so AI can write tests. So you have
it write tests so that way it can run
the test to make sure that the code that
it just wrote is actually work. I don't
know if I like that one. Right? I feel
like that one is uh is not good. Like I
feel like if I were to do this appro
approach, I'd want a new chat window in
which I say here's the signature of the
function, here's its expectation or
here's the interface. Write tests for
that. So it's it's writing tests
completely abstracted away from the
implementation because you're just going
to get tests that like prove the
implementation. You're like, dude, yeah,
it is what I wrote it to be. Like it
perfectly is exactly what I I said. Like
I don't know if that's actually true. Is
that like true? But I I I probably
should try more of this testing side. It
is very curious to play around with this
because I h I've largely distrusted it.
I always I always write the test myself
except for one time I didn't and then it
was wrong and I had to rewrite the thing
anyways. Still upset about it, but let's
just let's just ignore it for now.
Working. Uh it can also do interactive
debugging. So I have MCP servers set up
that allow it to launch a web browser.
So I use the Playright MCP. So when it's
building out a web app, it can actually
after implementing a feature launch the
browser, click on buttons, and make sure
that the feature worked as it expected.
However, a lot of these AI models are
typically like they're they're goal
seeking and their goal is to get things
working, which means they will write
tests that are not logically sound or
they'll write simple tests that actually
skirt specific edge cases so that the
tests will pass. Or the worst thing that
I cannot get AI to stop doing is when
it's writing TypeScript code, if it
can't get the TypeScript to work, it'll
just put in the any type and be like,
"Oh, we'll fix that later." Or the other
thing
statistical reflective human behavior.
Let's go.
Let's go. Answer to all things. Put an
any on it. Who is it? Billy Mazize that
slaps it. Who? I forget who it was that
does the whole slapping of the Annie on
there. But yeah, I mean, great. We
created a model off of Reddit that acts
like that reflects human behavior.
Shocking that when something doesn't
work a couple times, it slaps an N on
it. Like that should that good good on
the AI. Well done.
>> It'll do is it'll comment if it can't
get a a test to pass, it'll comment out
that test and be like, "Oh, I couldn't
get the test passing, but I commented it
out and now everything's working." And
it just drives me insane. But I think
it's because these models are are like
too highly tuned to be goal seeking,
right? They're not actually trying to
figure out the problem or write really
good tests. I think the word he's
looking for is they don't reduce
entropy. And I'm not sure if that's even
a property of LLMs to begin with. I
don't know if they can reduce entropy.
Meaning that when like a very easy and
simple example of this is if you have a
function that takes in one argument and
then you go okay here let's change
things up. I want to take in this other
type and do this other thing. It will do
it but it will put that argument as the
second argument in the function. It
won't go wait a second all other
functions in this file look you know it
won't like judge it in in in the grand
thing or it won't say hey this function
this item is more important it should be
the first item in the function it won't
think about the taste of the function
like hey if I were to make this function
what would feel better this one first or
this one first right like it doesn't do
those kind of operations in its head it
just simply does the thing right so it
doesn't it doesn't reduce entropy it
often introduces something where you're
like okay things are more falling apart
we're just layering on linear linearly
the solution to this problem which is
going to drive me nuts It doesn't, you
know, it's not going to get to the root
cause and figure out the right thing.
It's just going to do the thing that
makes the thing go away. Which makes
perfect sense. The thing going like, and
plus that's just like what that's what
people pay you to be an engineer for is
that you don't just look at an error and
solve the error. You look at the system
and you figure out why the system's
producing the error and how you best
like solve that. That makes perfect
sense.
>> Or actually solve these things. They're
just trying to get to a point where they
can stop running and say, "Hey, I'm
done." And uh it's very frustrating. Um,
and then the other thing you do is
agentic workloads. This is the new
hotness, right? Everybody's writing
their own custom agents and I tried this
out in cloud code. They were one of the
first to add agents and you can
basically try to solve this uh context
problem, right? So you can have
cloud.mmd, but sometimes cloud.md might
get too big or your cursor rules you
might have too many. But with agent
files, you can create specific agents
like a UI expert or a test expert or a
database expert. And each one of those
agents can have its own specific
description and can can also have notes
about architecture in the app or how it
should work or what tools it should use
for those specific types of things. And
that makes it so that sometimes or for
the most part it'll try to do the right
thing because it's not trying to cram
the entire list of cursor rules or the
entire cloud.md into the prompt. It's
just the prompt for those specific
agents. And that seems to work okay. But
again, I run into issues where the
agents are running the wrong commands or
not writing good tests. Um, and it just
hasn't worked for me. Um, again,
>> bro's a victim of statistics. I mean,
that's that's truly the big problem. If
it's like, hey, don't do these things.
Only use this thing. Well, it's like,
well, when solving this problem on the
internet, 10% of the time people use
this. And unlucky for you, this is that
10% of the time. Time to use this guy.
Here we go. Here we go. I've also ran
into this where I'm like, hey, don't run
the tests for this fix. And it's just
like, I'm running the test for the fix.
I'm like, don't run the test for this
fix. We do not run the test for this
fix. I'm running the test. Stop. Okay,
that command doesn't even exist. Stop
trying to run Python. There's no Python
in here. Just do the thing you're
supposed to do. Well, statistically
speaking, everybody runs Python for this
command. So, here's some Python. It's
just like, stop giving me Pyth I don't
want Python. I don't want Python. Just
stop. I'm going to freak out. I'm trying
not to yell at Python because it's just
a programming language. I'm not going to
get angry at it. But right now, every
time I see Python, I have this internal
burning desire of upsetness because it's
it's it's like symptomatic of this
problem that I keep running into.
>> You could chalk it up to a skill issue.
>> Yes, I've had it like I've tried it and
and they really don't work that well.
>> Um, so that these are all the the things
that I I do to try and make AI work. Um,
there's probably other stuff that I
missed here. If you do other things that
I haven't listed, please let me know in
the comments because this this is the
current knowledge and state of things as
I know it, right? this is how we should
be working with AI.
>> I bet you there will be comments
something along the lines of you got to
make it do smaller things. Scale issues.
The problem is and I mean it actually
sounds like he is trying to do a really
good job. I mean it's very hard to
convey everything you need that you've
been doing in a 15-minute talk, but it
sounds like he is actually genuinely
trying. It's also not surprising.
>> Personally, it just doesn't work as good
as they say it should and I and I don't
enjoy it. So that's that's my main point
there. Um
>> I love that line, by the way.
>> And so my other point here is okay, I
>> I do want to pause one more time. The
enjoying it part is like such an
important part, especially if you're new
into programming. If you're not deriving
joy, like man, this is going to it's
it's a hard road. It's genuinely a hard
road if you can't figure out how to make
the activity you're doing joyful because
you're going to be sitting in front like
to honestly to become good at
programming to understand a bunch of
concepts and to actually have a command
over many things is going to require 60
plus hours a week for many years. Yeah,
you can do 40 hours a week for even more
years, but it takes a lot. There's a lot
of just hands-on keyboard time to really
become good at something. And that it
and if you don't like it, like that's
hard. That's super super hard. And no
amount of AI is going to make you better
if it's doing it for you, right? Like
that's that's the hard part. And so
learning the joy and targeting that and
figuring out what makes you happy is
very important in this act in this
version. You know, just railed off
rallied off all this stuff that I know
about AI and all the things I've been
doing to work with it to try to get it
to work. And typically what you would
see online is if you haven't been using
these tools and you haven't been trying
them out and trying these specific
flows, you're falling behind. you're
going to become a basically uh useless
developer that's not up to date on the
times and that like can't use these
tools and can't work in the right way.
>> Yeah, it probably could also like write
a for loop by hand. Oh, gross. Dude,
these developers, they probably even
know how functions work.
>> And I disagree. I disagree. All of the
stuff that I just listed off, I could
learn in a week or less, right? Because
as programmers, as developers, we spend
our entire careers figuring things out,
right? It's literally part of our job
and all of the stuff that I just listed
are things that you could figure out.
It's not something that you need to
spend a year with. I'm confident that I
could spend a week with this stuff and
still be getting the same results that
I'm getting now. So, the argument that
if you don't stay up to date on this
stuff or if you're not using these
flows, you're going to fall behind, I
think is invalid because of who we are.
Now, if you're completely new to
programming, I don't have any advice for
you. I don't know what to say because
you you kind of actually I do have
advice. My advice is learn to actually
program. Don't just try to vibe things
because you're going to hit walls where
the AI can't figure it out and then
you're not going to be able to figure
out either. Um,
>> not only that, but the hard part is when
you start when you build something as a
program, you start with one line of code
and you slowly expand from there, right?
You kind of slowly get to the point of
understanding and you're slowly walking
through it. But when you vibe code
something and it breaks, you're not
handed one line of code. You're handed
hundreds if not thousands. And now
you're like, it's broke. You don't know
what you're doing. And there's a lot of
corpus in this document and it's likely
not necessarily made in the most
friendly way for humans to read. So you
have like this huge you have like every
single possibility pulling against you
that just makes it super hard to like
have a successful time. So it is I I'm
on this guy's team. Like if you're going
to learn to program, learn to program.
Turn off the AI. Just learn it. It takes
time. Not easy. I wouldn't even
necessarily say it's fun just to like
actually just learn the syntax. But once
you do, it's locked away. It's in there
because it's it's the semantic meaning
of it doesn't necessarily have to
translate into the actual syntax the
syntax of it. You understand how if
statement or for loop or a function or
all these things all work together and
it becomes easier and easier to reason
about larger and larger systems.
>> And the thing is I rarely hit those
walls because when AI can't figure it
out, I figure it out because I've been
doing this for a long time. So yeah,
that's my advice for any of you that are
new to the field is just
>> Oh, one more pause. I know I'm pausing
way too much. Uh there was an article.
It was uh not too long ago. We had the
creator of it on a while back. It was
about GitHub and AI usage and I can't
remember but there's like this rule or
this law or something from a book. Maybe
someone can remind me from Twitch chat.
But it effectively goes like this. Like
I believe it's from like Plato or
Socrates or some old guy. I don't
remember. You know what I'm talking
about old guy. uh where it is it's
something like this that when you're
doing a very large big picture task if
you're not doing the small iterative
activities you actually stop also being
good at the big task and so you you end
up making more and more mistakes because
you're not focused on the small things.
That's true in all fields. Exactly. It's
true in all fields. And so if you give
up the the task of writing code, you are
more likely to not see bugs when you're
reviewing code because over the time
you've lost that edge, that practice. So
I don't even believe you can long-term
have great skill in programming and then
only review code. And I think that
effectively I think that whatever that
is, whatever is the proper term where
through long-term removal of the basic
activities, it's hard also to be good at
the big activities. learn the field
without AI because that's what the rest
of us did and uh it it works. It works.
Yeah. Um another note I have here is
everything's just competing for your
attention and your money. If you spend
any time on X, there is a brand new
model launching every single day.
There's a brand new coding tool. We did
an AI coding tool tier list here on the
channel and there's just so many
comments mentioning like, "Oh, you
didn't mention this tool or you didn't
mention this tool." There's literally 10
dozens dozens of of tools that you
should be using to uh build out your
stuff. And they're all marketed in a
way, well, if you use this tool, it's
going to work exactly as you need it.
And I've tried I've tried a lot of the
tools. I really have. They're all just
rappers.
>> They're just GPT5 or Claude 45 or just
something. They're not even all these
tools claiming some sort of supremacy.
Most of them aren't some sort of
alternative model. I mean, that's what
makes Super Maven actually good is that
it's not just, oh, it's co-pilot, but
it's co-pilot delivered by another
company. No, it's like, no, it's
actually just something else. And it's
actually really good. were the
foundational model models released by
OpenAI, Anthropic and Google and then um
a few others. There's like Quinn and and
like the the smaller companies but
basically they built the models and
everyone is just building tools that are
wrappers around those models and of
course they all have slightly different
agentic flows. They have all slightly
different tools built in, slightly
different planning tools, and that might
give you a slight edge when you're
working on your stuff, but it's not that
much of an edge. And at the end of the
day, all of these tools are are
iterating so fast that they're all kind
of reaching feature parity and informing
each other on what they should be
adding.
>> He's he's he's right. You know, you may
not like that, but he's absolutely
right. A lot of these people claiming
this one is much better than this other
one, you're really just you're lying to
yourself. You are absolutely lying to
yourself, right? There's a lot of
edging, dude. just just lots of edging.
I know I'm good at stopping frames at
the best possible time.
>> And all of that to say, use the tools
that work. So, even with all these tools
that have been coming out, I'm basically
just stuck to cloud code and cursor. I
definitely want to give open code a try.
But those are the ones
>> based DAX. Did we just hear DAX
>> that I've stuck to and but please tell
me if I would have used any of the other
tools, would I still have run into the
problems that I talked about at the
beginning of this video? Maybe not, but
probably, right? Because they're all
based on the same models. Okay, so I I
think I'm done. Um, I think I'll end
this with uh what what am I going to do?
What are you going to do? And I have
decided that I am going to take a one
month break from AI coding tools.
>> Nice.
>> I am going to spend a month where I
write the code and I make the plans and
basically just go back to how I was
doing things two three years ago.
>> I I do I so just a recommendation as
someone who still does that full-time.
Uh even though I'm going the opposite.
I'm actually trying to give a month to
use these tools and become really good
at it. He's going the opposite way. Uh I
would highly recommend uh at least Super
Maven just because Super Maven of often
is really really small, but it's really
really fast. Did you see how fast that
auto completion is? That auto completion
was incredibly fast. Unlike unlike other
ones that are just super slow, this one
at least goes fast enough. Right? Like
that's what I want. If I'm going to have
something, I want something that when I
write it, I want to be able to at least
have something that's pretty quick. It
makes me feel a little bit better to be,
"Oh, okay. Yeah, okay." And then you can
do one thing at a time, right? It makes
me feel at least much much better than
uh anything else. And for me, it's this
I come down to this very simple thing,
which is I don't want to keep writing
logging statements by hand. It's really
really annoying. It's really really nice
to have logging done for you. Like
that's a very nice thing. And so I love
it. I love AI inline complete because I
don't need to write the for loop. I know
how to do it and every now and then I
turn it off. I turn it off usually like
one day a week just to kind of remind
myself of all the things. And I think
that that's pretty good because I don't
want to lose that edge. Um and uh we'll
see how it works out. Um and ultimately
I'm going back to what I enjoyed, right?
Because I talked about it at the
beginning of the video. That's what I
enjoy about programming. That's what I
enjoy about
>> this career and uh this job. And have a
hot take for him which he may find that
he doesn't like it. Sometimes when you
go back home, home's no longer home. You
know, Froto, just think about our boy
Frodo. Home was never home again. It's
true though. It's true. Sometimes you
find that you really enjoyed an
activity, but due to time and you
getting older, your hormones changing,
your position in life changes, all sorts
of different things change. You go back
to something that you used to love. And
when you do it, you find that you don't
really love it anymore. Like, you know,
I used to love playing video games all
day. I could play Halo for like 80 hours
a week. I can't play Halo. Like I I
would die. I would die playing any video
game 80 hours a week. You know, it's
just that thing like you can't I
remember the love, but I can't make the
love happen again. And that's one of the
dangerous parts is that this this one
thing that he's talking about. He's like
just programming like how I used to do
it two three years ago. Like what if
brother you go back and there's no more
love? What then? You don't like how it
currently is. And what happen if you
don't like how it was? So that's why
that's why I I do say this phrase quite
a bit which is like you got to seek joy.
You have to really like look after it
because it's not just where it has
always been. It's not just you don't
just run into it. It's a it's a it's a
continuous activity and it also takes
you opting into it. Meaning that every
activity every time you build something
you can look at it as this is going to
be a good experience and here's the
reasons why or this is going to be a bad
experience here's the reasons why. And I
find that a lot of times it's pretty
easy to look at like your next task as
doing something that's going to be
inconvenient. Uh, I don't like doing all
that kind of stuff. And that's totally
real. A lot of people do that. Yes, I I
actually have it enabled right now. Uh,
3D factor. And it can be really it can
be really uh it can you can decide a lot
in how you perceive goodness. You have
more autonomy than you realize. I've
never grown out of liking big booty
Latinas. Oh, pick. Thanks for that
insightful and amazing addition to this
conversation. and um maybe it'll make me
feel a little bit little bit better
because I'm not yelling at an LLM every
day. Um now I do realize that I'm a very
I'm in a very privileged position,
right? So I work at a company that does
not force me to use AI and if anything
it encourages me to explore different
AIs or different ways of doing things
and I I basically have complete and
total freedom. By the way, I feel bad
for the people that work. What was it?
Was it Shopify? Was it really Toby? I
don't remember if it was Toby or not.
Uh, it was someplace where they're just
like, "If you're not using it, get the
hell out of here." Crazy talk, by the
way. Absolutely insane talk.
>> I realize that you out there are being
forced to use AI by your work.
>> Um, and you you kind of have no choice.
>> So, for that, I I don't know what to
tell you. I I think maybe you could
pretend like you're using AI, but then
maybe go back go back to
>> I don't think you can, honestly. If
everything starts using AI and and
people just aren't writing code, you're
just going to generally get shittier
code. And you trying to fight that's
going to be impossible, right? It's
going to be super hard to fight against
that. And eventually, like, you just
have to give in. You just have to say,
"All right, this file sucks. How it's
set up sucks. I don't want to have to
learn everything just to get to this
point." Say, "Uncle, mercy. Here you
go." And prompt. Okay. Those are the
snake eyes. Okay. and prompt
>> doing the things you way the way you
were doing them before. And I also
realize that not everyone is building
the same kinds of apps I'm building or
running into the same issues, but but
that's potentially because we're
building different things. And so, um,
you can have your complaints about what
I talked about, but I would say that if
you're trying to build the same things
that I'm building, you would be running
into the same issues. And I'm very
confident in that. Um, okay.
>> He's very right, by the way. Like if
you're working at a uh a like marketing
firm that all they do is like build
static sites or kind of interesting
little interactive sites for various
companies, that seems like a ripe place
for vibe coding to just destroy because
you don't need to maintain these. These
aren't long-term things, okay? They're
not going to keep growing with features.
They're just simply something that
exists and you just need to mash
together to meet requirements. The end,
right? Like that to me seems like a that
that to me seems like a perfect place
for it, right? Fire and forget landing
pages. Exactly. like these these are
real things. Uh even though I would
personally argue that landing pages are
very very important and you should
actually take a significant amount of
time on landing pages cuz most landing
pages look the same and they're utter
horseshit. They're confusing. They have
a bunch of big images. When you scroll
changes all over the screen.
There's not an HRB and everybody knows
HRBs drive sales. Like if you don't HRB,
you're not down with me. Okay? HRBs huge
red buttons. Okay? It's been this way
for literally forever. Like anyone that
thinks they can be cutesy on a landing
page and they don't do an HRB, you're
just like you're just losing sales.
Okay, call to action dead center. Make
it obvious. What do you want the person
to do? What are you trying to say? You
know, it's crazy. Anyways, that's all I
got. Uh I think I'll check back in a
month and let you know how things went.
And um yeah, let me know if you like
this kind of video. Uh my plan is to not
edit it. You'll see if there are any
cuts. I think it's just straight
straight to the camera.
>> No, that's perfect.
>> That's all I got. Let me know what you
think and uh I'll catch you in the next
one.
>> Honestly, my most successful videos now
are no longer live react videos, but me
just talking about a topic unbroken
pretty much. It is it's it's crazy how
much better people like this this type
of format quite a bit. It's much more
genuine, too, because you you see the
person think, you see the person kind of
mle through thoughts. It's not so quick
edited. Uh even this one right here,
this one, even though it says 30,000,
it's it's it's over 70,000 for views.
Uh, this one right here, it's crazy. It
It's just doing great. And it's just
mostly me yapping about how upset I am
at Windows and Apple and why Mac is or
why Linux, it might actually just be the
year of the Linux desktop. It's crazy.
I'm actually really Yeah. So, so am I.
So, please CJ, I want in fact I know
I'll reach out to you CJ, but I'll just
say it out loud here, which is you
should come on the show at some point
and talk about your experience. Glad to
have you on the standup. come on here
and be like, I went one month after
being a heavy AI user and went back to
the old way. Here's what I've learned.
Glad to have you on, ask you a bunch of
questions. It'll be super fun. Anyways,
hey, the name, it's good to learn from
people, by the way. You know, I know
there's a lot of people that are kind of
upset in the audience. I actually get
emails, but I actually get not only
emails, but I also get Twitter DMs. I
recently had this one guy, he has like
hundreds of thousands of followers, and
he whispered me and he was just like,
"You know what you're doing." So, of
course, at that point, I'm just like,
"This guy's a big account, and he's
talking to me like that. Oh, look. CJ
said that. Nice. Hey, actual CJ says
that. Yeah, CJ. This is a great video,
by the way. Very relatable. Absolutely
loved it. Super fantastic. Anyways, this
guy was just like, "You know what you're
doing." And I remember sitting there
thinking, "What did I What did I do?
Okay, you got me. What did I do?" So, I
went in there. I jumped on. By the way,
you see, look, I'm following Coding
Garden. So, if you're not following
Coding Garden, you're not a real one.
Okay? Real ones wish list insignia on
Steam and follow Coding Garden. That's
it. Uh, but I remember him doing this.
So then of course I was just like,
"Okay, what what am I doing?" He's just
like, "You're teaching people that AI is
not the only future and you are stealing
away their careers forever." And I'm
just like, "Oh, crazy, man. You have
like hundreds of thousands of followers
and you think like this, dude. Bro, was
was 911 an inside job? Like where where
we at? Where we at? Like how much
Tylenol we talking? We talking like
migraines or just the occasional
headache? like where how did you land
here? It was crazy. And so anyways,
that's that. So I realized like there's
a lot of people in the audience they
they get really upset at this kind of
talk because there's this like I don't
know what it is, you know, like you said
CJ, it's kind of like in this like
religious kind of feel where people it's
almost like if you aren't doing this
thing then I'm like assaulting somebody
in the spiritual realm for leading them
astray. And it's like it's it's not
true. I'm not trying to assault you in
the spiritual realm and leading you
astray. Yeah, I'm not taking you off the
straight and narrow here. I'm just
simply saying my experience with it
versus what I can do feel like two
different things. And I don't love it. I
wish I could love it. I'm not
necessarily only about typing on a
keyboard. I enjoy mashing all the old
dim keys and all that, but that doesn't
necessarily mean I want to do it all the
time. I would love it if I could just be
like, make the layout for me. Okay, I
want to try this. Okay, I don't like
that. I'm going to do some programming.
I want to kind of adjust some things.
Okay, now do it this way. Okay, cool.
Right. Like I don't mind that. It feels
good. In fact, that's partially if you
guys remember. Uh actually, let's get
out of beacons. Actually, let's just see
what happens if we go to beacons. Let's
see if this even runs. Let's see if
beacon is even any good. Okay. Okay, it
still runs. If you remember bullet time
in the game, right? Bullet time in the
game right here where see how we're
going here. I'll speed it up. So, we're
going faster. Bullet time. See how it's
going really, really slow. This was
actually something that I started by
vibe coding. I thought it was really
cool and I thought the feel was super
super good. So I was like, "Okay, I
gotta figure out how to do this more
because I really I really like this
experience." And so that was done by a
vibe coding to begin with, but then I
rewrote everything and it was fantastic.
So I'm not like against it, okay? I'm
not against it. A Jan Somehow this was
an hourong react. What the hell am I