Lots of people have been uh catnipped by
cloud code. None of us can sleep
anymore. Peter and Armen are on three
and four hours of sleep a day. Same for
me. Cloud code's been uh an interesting
experience in that it's the first coding
agent that feels like it actually allows
us to do things we couldn't do before.
And it's not so much about the tool
being a better programmer. It's
definitely not. It shits out real bad
code, but it lets us iterate on ideas we
have at a speed that wasn't possible
before. Um, this means that we can play
around with ideas with a super fast
turnaround time. And if you find
something that sticks, we can actually
make it pretty by using our human
brains. Um, and relying less on cloud
code. At least that's how I approach
things. Um, Armen gave a talk recently.
He is a little bit less of a dictator in
that sense. I think he has a pretty long
leash around Clos Claude Coat's neck.
I'm more of a control freak and I
really don't like it going off on its
own for too long because I find that I
usually end up with uh a big mess of
overengineered tech depth. Anyways, the
point of this talk is to give you a
practical insight of how I use clo cloud
code.
Um,
it's not an engineering discipline yet.
I think we're all struggling to find the
patterns that will make things
reproducible. That's one big problem
with a gentic coding. Um, you're talking
to an indeterministic machine or model.
Um, and results may vary. Uh, depending
on how you prompt it, a single word in
your prompt can actually change the
outcome entirely. Um, despite all of
that, I'm going to try to show you uh
practical applications of cloud code uh
outside of coding um for new projects
and for uh using it with established
code bases.
So I'll be exclusively mostly talking
about cloud code. So assume basic
familiarity uh on your end. If not, head
over to the website, read the docs, get
yourself familiar, play around with it,
let it generate a little game or
whatever you're comfortable with
inspecting and playing around with. And
once you're back, uh, use this liars.
Now people will scream at you. This
basically passes a flag to cloud that
tells it to skip all permission
dialogues. Um, we want to use cloud in a
way that it doesn't ask for permission
all the time or doesn't ask you to input
more information or whatever. So,
skipping those permission dialogues is a
way to happiness because cloud is very,
let's say, asky. It will pop up those
permission dialogues all the freaking
time. If you do not do this, you will
end up in a s situation like this. Let
me just first clear any previous
permission I gave.
Slash commands also very important, but
read the talks. In any case, I just
recorded a video um in this directory,
the intro video,
and this is a moth. So, I want that to
be converted to ffmpeg. I don't remember
anything about ffmpeg anymore. So, I'm
just going to ask Claude to do it for
me. Hey, could you please convert the
file in desktop-talk
uh into uh an MP4 using ffmpeg? Set a
big timeout because this could take a
while.
So, what's cloud what cloud's now doing
is it basically comes up with a bash
command to do exactly that. Um, and that
will usually ask for permission like
this. And for some of these commands, it
allows you to pick the second option,
which is yes and don't ask again, which
will set up a permission rule that
allows ffmpe in that directory to be
executed in the future. In some cases,
it doesn't give you this permission, but
will ask you all the time, yes or no.
And the reason for that is that in the
background, Claude is actually passing
the bash command it's about to execute
to Haiku 3.5 with a very simple prompt
that essentially boils down to is this
dangerous? Does this require user
permission asking all the time? And if I
Haiku 3.5 says, yep, this super [ __ ]
dangerous. You need to ask the user
about this every [ __ ] time, then you
don't get option two. And the way I
figured that out, I show you in the next
part, but let's just say it's very
funny. Um, so anyways, this is annoying
and this will break the loop. By loop, I
mean you give claw the task with a
hopefully pretty good specification and
it will do the needful for as long as it
takes until it uh finishes the task.
Um, and if you have these permission
dialogues, then we as the humans need to
jump in all the time, and it's very
[ __ ] annoying.
So anyways, if we do the same thing with
cloud danger, it's not going to happen.
Um, it will still uh tell you that
you're now trying to access things
outside of the working directory because
by default clot will try to cd into the
directory and then use um local relative
bash commands. it usually figures out
how to do it from your current working
directory
and it's still annoying because it
wastes turns um to this back and forth
between
your local client and the LLM in the
cloud but generally it will will
eventually arrive at a solution
and that is cloud danger. Um I haven't
had anything bad happen to my machine in
two months. There's nothing on this
machine that could be leaked or that
could be destroyed. Everything's backed
up in the cloud. So even if cloud [ __ ]
up, I would not care. I would just wipe
the machine. It probably wouldn't
install a rootkit. So I assume it's
pretty safe to just swipe the machine if
something bad happens.
And if you're super extra mega concerned
that cloud will do something to your
machine, just run it in a Docker
container or any Docker or any container
of your liking really. um in two months
nothing bad happened. So take that with
a grain of salt. Uh what it does [ __ ] up
a lot is git commands especially if the
project becomes uh bigger and if the git
history becomes a little bit more
complex or your staged files and working
directory are a little weird or outside
the norm. But yeah, other than that
nothing bad happened so far. Famous last
words.
Another thing you'll read in the docs is
about cloud MD files. And cloud MD files
are basically just a way to inject
additional information into the system
prompt that cla comes with by default.
There are multiple locations you can put
these files. Um, for example, I have a
very simple one in my user directory.
um which just tells it to don't add
comments and never add yourself as a
committer and never add this silly line
to your commit messages. This will get
appended to the system prompt which is
passed to each request to the LLM along
with the history you have the chat
history and it generally doesn't work.
Uh like cloth has a really strong
tendency to use grap instead of rip grap
and it's [ __ ] annoying because on Mac
OS grap is just kind of broken. Um so
yeah this is nice if it works but often
it doesn't work and you cannot rely on
it working.
In addition to your kind of global cloud
MD, um you can also have cloud MDs in
any folder of your working directory.
And if you spawn cloud in this directory
like we did here, um it will read the
one in user directory and this one.
And as you can see here in this one, uh
it's kind of basically a description of
the project. This is my blog. My blog
works using my static templating block
engine thing um which has a watch mode
and um basically takes whatever is in
source and outputs HTML. The sources are
free form. You can do whatever you want.
There's a little JavaScript based uh
templating engine here where you can
execute any kind of code to generate
outputs. It's basically like PHP just
with Node. Um yeah and what I did in
this cloud MD is I describe uh to claude
what this directory is about where to
find things how to execute things. Um
pretty simple stuff. The takeaway here
is that cloud is not just for code.
Cloud is a general purpose bash calling
bash command calling machine and it's
really good at it. Uh especially if you
give it concrete instructions. So in
this case um let's see we can just
demonstrate how well this works.
Um let's say I want to write a blog post
which is basically uh about what I'm
recording now. So a gentic coding or
whatever you want to call it throwing
[ __ ] at a wall and hoping it sticks for
example. So I can just tell Claude, "Hey
Claude, um I'd like to write a new blog
post uh dated with today um June 29th,
20 25. Um, and its title should be how I
clot code. Um, and the slug should be
just clot dash code. Uh, please set that
up for me and then start the server.
So, it will now read this instructions
which tell it how to create a new blog
post and how to set up the server and
will dutifully follow all of that. So it
already [ __ ] up by not using the
correct directory because we said June
but it made it January which is very not
good.
And then it writes the basic meta JSON
which is just a description of the blog
post that the uh generator uses to build
this table of contents. Basically
it started the server which runs in
watch mode. So, anytime I change this
here,
um, and save hello, this will auto
update, which is very nice if you're
working on more visual stuff in the blog
post. And we're more or less happy. Um,
I said June, not January.
And that should be enough for Claude to
understand that it should change this to
the proper date. The question is if it
reopens this. It probably doesn't,
but it's not a big deal.
Oh yeah, now it keeps rereading this and
u also modifying the meta JSON which
also has the publication date in it and
it actually reloaded the correct URL. So
takeaway here is cloud is not just for
code. Cloud is for anything that you can
bash. Um, it's also really good at
writing ad hoc scripts. Um, you just saw
me previously trying to convert that one
single file um into that one single moth
file into an MP4 through ffmpeg. Instead
of asking cloud to do this all the time
for a specific file, I can just say,
"Hey Cloud, uh, could you please write a
bash script and store it in desktop uh,
slashtalk?"
Um, it should, uh, run through all the
moth files in that directory and convert
them to mp4 using ffmpeg.
And for me, this is where cloud shines
actually. I use this all the time to
write these kinds of ad hoc scripts and
tools either using bash or node um
because it makes my life so much easier.
Sometimes if something reusable comes
out of that, I just put that in a
location in my path and keep using it
for the rest of my life. Um I think I
previously had one of these convert
mouth to MP4s um that I might have just
I don't know um deleted it.
So now um let's see if this actually
works. Obviously it will because it's
pretty trivial demand for a machine like
claude. And it even set the permissions
and it seems to work just fine. Yeah.
And this doesn't extend to just these
kinds of simple tasks. It can also do
data analysis for you. basically run
through this directory recursively and
uh do the thing uh read the Excel sheets
and extract this and that data or um
summarize the contents of all of these
PDF files and write that out to a JSON
file with metadata and the summary and
so on and so forth. And those are all
just ad hoc. This is nothing I would
actually inspect and modify myself. um I
just use them one or two times for a
specific task at hand and then throw
them away and take the results and work
with that and it's really great at that.
And it takes a while to get into the
state of mind to actually realize that
Claude is so good at that. Um I often
find myself writing something by hand or
just keep asking Claude to do this one
thing repeatedly instead of kind of
making it more general and putting it in
a script. Um really watch out for any
kind of automations you can cloud uh can
of cloud generate for you. It's super
[ __ ] practical and it will save you
so much time. And once you have tools
like that, some little scripts that you
actually want to reuse and that aren't
just one-offs, put them in your CloudMD
for that specific uh project. In most of
my projects, I have a script folder and
all of these little ad hoc tools go in
there. And I also put let Claude put
descriptions of of these tools in my
CloudMD.
Actually, I'm not using CloudMD all that
much anymore. There's a reason for that,
but we'll come to that later. Anyways,
take away. Cloud's really good at not
only calling tools, but also writing
tools for you. And you should use that.
They don't have to be programming
specific. Anything that you can bash
should be should be abstracted like
that, I think.
Cloud is not only good at calling tools
and writing tools for you that are ad
hoc in form of bash or node scripts.
It's also pretty good at figuring out
the structure of a project. Um, it has
to because otherwise it couldn't help
you. Um, the problem with that is that
every time you start a new cloud session
like this and then ask it to do a thing
like this, please create a new blog post
uh dated 2025-06-29.
Uh, it's should be called how I do stuff
and uh please generate a good slug for
that.
Then what it needs to do is it needs to
go off and basically investigate your
entire project. That's not nice. You
don't want to waste time on this. Also,
every time cloud does this, it might
come to a different conclusion. Every
single word in your initial prompt will
uh trigger a different path in the LLM
weights. So, what it does is not
necessarily reproducible.
Uh so instead of doing it the cowboy
way, it makes sense to write down what
the project is about and how it's
structured and what the common tasks are
and how to um achieve them or perform
them.
Uh in this case it ended up writing um
the meta JSON which looks okay. It ended
up writing an MD file which misses the
very important
uh PHP like scripting stuff that adds
the footer and the header and includes
the meta JSON and so on.
Um but it did create oh it actually also
yeah it created the correct folder name.
So all of that is fine, but it's wonky.
It's not quite right. And having to go
in there and fixing it up every time
sucks. Also, it wastes context because
all of this is no part of your context,
which means you have all of this nice
garbage in here. Press Ctrl R E. Well,
in this case, it's not that much, but it
piles up in more complex projects. So
instead, what we had and want to
generate a new is a nice little cloud MD
file. um that describes what it's about
and the tasks and how to uh how to do
them. Also any kind of rules like coding
rules, CSS styling rules, whatever you
have. We could write this by hand. Um or
we could have cloud generate a first
draft. And the way we can do this is
like this.
So please note I have let me delete
this.
I have deleted the readme MD and the uh
cloud MD I had previously. This is the
old cloud MD. we can compare against
later on. Um, so it doesn't cheat,
right? And then I just go super ad hoc.
Please analyze this project. Um, read
the publish.sh file in full and then
read a bunch of files in the source
folder. I then want you to write a cloud
MD file uh that details what the project
is about, its structure, and common
tasks you think uh will be performed.
Please keep the cloud MD nice and
minimal yet exhaustive.
So this will trigger essentially the
same workflow or steps that Claude uh
took when it wrote our blog post ad hoc
earlier in the last session except this
time it won't actually execute any of
that stuff. it will just take note of
things and write it down in a new cloud
MD file which is nice because the next
time we start the session cloud will
automatically load that cloudmd file and
immediately know what we're about um to
do or how we are going to achieve what
we're about to do and you want that not
only for a very simple project like this
block you want that for your big ass
super modular whatever projects as well
and the way you go about that is pretty
similar to this except you won't put
that all in a cloud MD file because it's
going to be huge. You want to split it
up. The way I usually do it is I have a
docs folder in my repository.
I have an spec.md file which gives a
general overview um of the architecture
and any subm modules. And then for each
submodule, I have a specific MD file
that the spec file links to. If I then
want to work on a specific subm module,
I'll tell Claude to either just read
that submodule MD file or multiple
depending if I I need to cross reference
other modules as well. And that makes
for much less turns because cloud will
not waste time crapping and failing
through your codebase anymore.
And it also serves as fantastic
documentation.
What you then need to do is keep that
documentation up to date. And good news,
Cloud can help you with that. Uh so
anytime you modify a module um in your
project, just have Cloud analyze the
final git uh diff and then update the
respective MD file for that module to to
to be in sync with the actual sources.
This might sound cumbersome and you
still have to go through the changed MD
file by hand and make sure that it
actually does uh cover the changes
properly instead of hallucinating [ __ ]
But it will save you a lot of turns, a
lot of time, and a lot of grief down the
road because it also serves as
documentation for you, the human, which
is a point we'll talk about later.
So, did it generate a cloud MD file? It
did. And now we can compare it to our
old way of doing this.
So in the beginning, this is pretty much
the same thing. Project structure with
bunch of files. Eh, I would probably
delete it. Common tasks, add a new blog
post. Um, so create the directory that
makes sense. Add the meta JSON that is
also okay. And then write content index
MD. This one is tough. It failed to
identify that that index MD needs front
matter uh using the templating engine.
this stuff here. Um,
we're going to fix that. And then add
media files to media subdirectory to
build the site. Yeah, that's correct. To
deploy, that also is correct. Preview
locally open. This is not correct. So,
it also didn't actually execute blur
with d-help to figure out that there's a
development mode.
So, instead of going in there and
writing this by hand, I can just tell
it.
Um, so the way to uh preview locally or
development mode should be to invoke
blark uh with the d-watch and d-surf
arguments. Uh, and you should use no hub
for that so it doesn't block you.
And also when you write the initial
index.md it needs to have uh ejs front
matter. Please look into the other index
mds how that works.
Once you've figured out all of these
things, please update the cloud MD.
And this is essentially how I can also
trigger a a rebuild or an update of say
a module MD file in docs folder that I
talked about earlier.
Um, so as you can see, it now executes
plark-help.
It looks into the front matter of other
existing blog posts and it should update
this nicely. Again, the MD files that
Claude generates for you, treat them as
first drafts, do not take them as is.
They will have errors like we just saw
or um missing things and you need to
make sure that they are golden because
those are the ground truth for every
session you start with cloud. If you're
lazy and do not do this, uh then you
will end up in a world of hurt.
It also benefits you because one of the
things I see a lot of people doing when
they use cloud code or any other agentic
uh vibe coding tool, they just let it
[ __ ] out an immense amount of code,
never review that and just go by their
manual testing. That's not the way to do
it. At least that's not the way I do it
because I like software that works and I
like software that I can maintain even
if my internet that's down uh or my
massive subscription actually got rate
limited. So it's important to understand
things and this is a very nice way to
keep track of things even if you don't
fully croc every single line of your
webcoded stuff. Um this at least gives
you a chance to also work on this and
debug things on your own
and it updated things nicely.
There we go.
Do this. It's really important. You need
to understand your code. So now we have
our new CloudMD. And I guess we could
just test it. I'm starting up a new
session.
And then I say basically the same thing
we had before. Let's see. Actually,
let's use uh resume, which is a very
wonky way to go through all your
previous sessions. I'm still not sure
what the sorting of this is. It's very
not good. Um, but yeah, it's supposed to
let you resume old sessions with cloud
code. If one of these sessions gets
compacted, the summary is all [ __ ] up.
Um, again, the sorting is all kinds of
[ __ ] up. Um, yeah, purpose of this is
I want to actually just replay this
session.
As you can see, this one uh where where
it didn't have any information about the
project.
And now try it with
a new and improved cloud MD file. So
please create it should be called on
please good luck for that. Actually
let's add more in also want you to uh
start the dev server and open the new
blog post in the browser.
And now compared to the old way of
unstructured exploration and then kind
of sort of doing the thing, the hope is
that
claude based on the claude MD is now
able to do this in one go. It might in
this case not be faster because the task
is pretty simple, but it's more
structured
and repeatable and it will pretty much
do the same thing every time you ask it
to do this. So it writes the new meta
JSON which is fine. Publish true is
probably not what we want. So this is
another opportunity to make cloud.md
better
and then it creates the index.mmd file
which takes a lot of tokens apparently.
I still don't know what the little
hammers mean. Um let's see. Yeah, now
this time it added the front matter and
I don't know what this is. It just
hallucinated an entire blog post.
I guess that's where all the threat boys
get their content from. And finally, it
starts the development server with no
hub. It sleeps for whatever reason. I
guess it doesn't trust my my my code.
Uh and opens the blog post in the
browser hopefully correctly.
There we go.
Yeah, I wish they had something like
time management. Then I could sleep.
Anyways, takeaway um use cloud to write
documentation for your next cloud sess
session and yourself. Never take the
first draft of that stuff as gospel.
Manually go in there, make it nice, make
it pretty, make it adhere to the actual
structure of your project and then keep
updating it every time you change
something. Sounds tedious, totally
[ __ ] worth it.
Quick step back here. Um, how did we get
here? Why are we all so sleepless?
Let's look at the evolution of of LLM
based coding assistance. Um, in the
beginning there was GPT, um, which
wasn't really good for coding, but it
gave us a glimpse into the future. Then
came GPT 3.5 and Codeex and GitHub
Copilot. And the way we used that back
then as old gray beards was we set up a
little project like this here. um opens
a window, allocates a pixel buffer,
clears the pixel buffer to a nice blue
color, then enters a main loop where we
update the window with the buffer
contents and wait for the app to exit.
That's it, right? Uses mini FB. Super
awesome library. Love it. The person who
built it a demo demo scener. He's a
lovely person. Love everything about it.
Clear and simple implementation also
super clean. Anyways, we have this
little project and now I want to draw a
line. uh I know my computer graphics so
I want to present them line algorithm
but I don't want to code it myself with
GPT 3.5 I would do this paste all the
things in here and say please add a line
drawing function using presamp's
algorithm then modify the main loop to
render two lines
and this was good and this was well um
we could basically minus the system
prompt specify what we have in our
context and be pretty happy with the
results.
And then we would wait for that and wait
for that and wait for that. And then we
would just press the little copy button.
Go back over here to our editor. Paste.
See that it still kind of compiles. And
we can try to run it.
Oh my god. What's What's it doing? There
we go. One more time, baby. Yeah. So,
this looks good. Kind of sort of. But it
doesn't scale. But it has the big
benefit of me being able to mostly minus
the system prompt um control the
context. So I know exactly what
information the model got to generate
its answer. And that's nice. I like
that.
Then um Microsoft and OpenAI and GitHub
teamed up and built something called
GitHub Copilot. And I remember Nat
Freiedman being mad at me uh because I
wouldn't understand why this was the
future of coding because honestly I
still to this day think this is not the
future of coding. So the way GitHub
copilot worked was it was a completion
model basically. Um you write a comment
and you say tap tap tap. Oh Jesus it
untapped it. No I want to keep this
please. So good. Oh Jesus cursor present
line drawing algorithm. Right. So you
write out that comment and then you just
tap and tap and tap and eventually it
will start [ __ ] up your code
and at some point recover hopefully
and then it deletes a bunch of stuff. Oh
my god. And tab. And now I don't have
buffer clearing anymore. And this is all
very terrible. Uh, but it again
compiles. But I now have a black
background, I guess. Oh, no, I don't.
Did it? Oh, it's still in here. Oh, it
did does it every every iteration. Okay.
Anyways, yeah, as you can see, this is
terrible. Like, also this doesn't scale
also. And the biggest problem again, it
doesn't scale like copy and paste also
doesn't scale. But the problem with this
is apart from the shitty UX, um, I don't
control my context anymore.
um I don't know what's being sent to the
model when it generates me these partial
completions and that's bad because I
like to be in control of that. Having
worked on production LLM based systems I
want full control over my context
because I as an educated person know
that context management is everything
and copilot didn't give me that. All
right, shitty UX, right? And copy and
paste not ideal. some uh kids in Silicon
Valley then figured out that they can
actually fork VS code uh instead of
writing an extension
uh and built things like Kursza or
Windsurf or whatever other Casilian uh
IDE VS code forks we now have.
And the way this worked was a little
better. It was basically an improvement.
Oh my god. It was an improvement on the
copy and paste workflow that you had
with GPT3.5.
So you'd open your workspace in your VS
code fork. Um you would open a file and
you would want to modify that file. You
pull up the chat window here and the
wonderful IDE fork will add this file as
context to you automatically. And then
you go ahead and just prompt it like
before. Please add a line rendering
function using Brassenham's algorithm.
Then modify the main loop to render two
lines.
And in the old days, we had this mode,
which was basically just a nicer way of
the copy and paste workflow we had here,
plus the automatic additions of the open
file, plus, and this is where the
problem start, some background [ __ ]
where it would actually not submit the
entire file, um, but cut it up, then
also pull in uh, additional bits and
pieces from around the codebase without
you having any kind of control of the
context that's being submitted for this
request or for this turn. And that
sucks. I hate it. Again, just like with
Copilot, I need to be in control of the
context because that also allows me to
create more complex workflows that
actually work and are repeatable.
Cursor, the old mode, didn't give me
that. Don't know if the aentic mode is
any better. I doubt it. The reason being
that cursor is in the business of
basically making a margin between you
paying them and them paying someone else
for tokens.
So their goal must be to reduce the
amount of tokens that they send and
receive from the LLM provider which
means they need to [ __ ] with your
context. You have no control of it and I
like that. So cursor is not ideal but
it's an improved workflow compared to
copy and paste. This UI is also really
nice. I get to see the changes the LLM
suggest suggests and I can just accept
them blindly run without debugging and
this is very awesome and for the past
year I use this but always with the
thought in the back of my mind I don't
control my context and I know don't know
what the [ __ ] cursor is doing but it's
probably not good and it's probably the
reason why this fails on much more
complex tasks than this simple demo
here. So, and then Entropic decided to
um publish an internal tool
and that internal tool came with a bunch
of stuff
that is really nice.
The first thing it comes with is for
plebs like us, a subscription. And that
subscription is a max subscription which
costs you about $100 a month or $200 a
month for an insanely high amount of um
tokens that you can exchange before you
get rate limited. Now, some people
manage to do that with the max account
at $200 like uh Peter Steinburg. I don't
because I keep my my my LLMs on a tight
leash. Uh and I usually don't run more
than two or three of them in parallel.
For me personally, the max plan is
unlimited usage, which is great. And
unlimited usage means uh entropic
doesn't in the background need to save
tokens.
So there's no context
size reduction tricks like cursor and
other nonLM providers have to rely on to
make a margin. And this is the first
part to this equation. Um unlimited
access to excellent coding models
without any context [ __ ] And the
second big thing is that they clot code
comes with built-in tools which we'll
look at in more detail in the next
section
which actually allow the thing to loop
which means give it a task and some
success criteria
and it will do its damnest and not stop
until it has reached the success state.
And while cursor probably in agent mode
can do this for you, it usually breaks.
It just doesn't continue looping until
success state is reached. It just stops
and there's no indication it stopped.
No, I can't step away from this and uh
and and come back knowing that it
probably finished the task with cloud
code. That's possible. And the bonus
point is that I mostly get to control my
um my context. Now, this might not be
obvious in the UI because if you do
this, please add a line rendering
function using Presnam's algorithm that
modify the main loop to render two
lines.
Um, the UI doesn't show you all the
things um that are in the context like
it won't show the 38 lines that are
being read unless you press Ctrl R,
which is nice because now I see what's
happening. Um, and I also see the
details for the other tool calls, but
obviously there's more in the context
than this. There's the system prompts,
the tool definitions, um, additional
information they hide in the UI, but
this is hackable and we'll look at that
in the next section. So, we can better
control and understand how context is
being built up and managed by cloud
code. And all of these things together,
um, basically unlimited tokens, at least
for me, uh, at a low low price,
uh, and tools that actually work and,
uh, context management I can do myself
for reliable workflows is what makes C
cloud code so damn [ __ ] good.
So I was babbling on and on about
context and context management a lot and
uh we already saw that cloud code in its
tuy doesn't really show us all of the
context um but it's hackable so I wrote
a little tool um it's called
clot trace um you can install it
globally like I have or just run it via
mpx
And the thinging this tool does is it
starts cloud cloud uh it injects itself.
It hooks the fetch uh note function and
then just logs all the requests that
code cloud makes through the fetch
function which is very funny. Um so I
can uh do an include all requests here.
So I get to see all the things in the
log. Um
and let's go start it.
Okay, the first thing that happens is uh
it creates a clo-racing
uh folder and then um it locks the row
raw requests and responses in there and
from this raw response requests I
reconstruct a nicer HTML version of this
um which we'll see in a bit. So let me
close this down
and actually we haven't submitted
anything yet, right? So let's just close
this and ta there's actually something
going on here. So it turns out that in
order to get a quota uh
clot code will fire off uh a message to
haiku saying quota limiting the max
tokens to one and it doesn't matter what
the reply here is. Um what matters is
this here and I hope I didn't leak any
any keys. I think cloud trace is smart
enough to not
actually show the
key. Yeah, it actually doesn't. Okay,
good. Uh so anyways, um this is how they
check for quota. They actually ask uh a
silly question to Haiku and trigger full
LM interference
to get basically this instead of having
a dedicated endpoint. Now that's funny,
right? Okay, good. So, let's do this
again.
And dangerously
skip permissions.
I hope I got that right. And then ask
claw to I don't know implement circle
rendering using present circle rendering
algorithm. Please implement another
function draw circle u that implements
circle rendering using breastnamp circle
rendering algorithm and then modify the
main loop to uh draw two circles.
Okay, we're going to let it work for a
little while here um
because the next thing we're going to
look at is what actually happens to a
context when this is executed. Right?
So, I told you CtrlR actually gives you
a pretty good idea what's in your
context, but it's not the full truth and
it's rather interesting to see what's
actually happening. Hey, I said skip.
All right, I hope it's done soonish so
we can quit the session and open up the
new log.
There we go. So, we're done doing this.
I'm not sure if it runs. That's the
thing. So, that's good. It really likes
red and white for some reason. Um, and
then let's quit the session, which will
open up the latest lock. So, again, we
get the querto call, which is nice. Uh,
and then we get this here. Do you
remember
when you
Oh, it's actually
something like this. Run with uh
dangerously
skip permissions.
Cloud trace is a little janky,
right? So,
um when you do anything like read the
main C file, you get these little cute
words here, right? So, ever wondered how
they generate those? Well, wonder no
more.
They are sending uh
your user request to Haiku with this
prompt. Analyze this magic and come up
with a single positive, cheerful, and
delightful ver.
And this happens for every token you
actually input. Um,
so that's cute. Oh, actually it used to
happen for every token you input. I
think they might have seen cloud trace
and fixed it. So it's actually only
doing it once now.
or my my log output is wrong. I don't
know. I I I remember it doing it for
every token that you input in the edit
text field. All right. So, once that's
out of of its way, uh it will actually
call into opus with our um request
and it doesn't just send our request. If
you have the nice IDE integration, which
you cannot install actually, let me
demonstrate. So, I go IDE none. Now,
we're not connected anymore. I go to
extensions and say, "Please go away."
And then I restart. Oopsie. And then I
restart Claude.
Tada. The extension is back. And there's
no way to get rid of it. Um, and you
will see why I hate it. So, I usually do
this at the start of my sessions.
Anyways, um, where was my log? There is
my log. So, it's not just your raw
prompt that gets sent uh as the first
message in a conversation. There's also
a system reminder, and that would
contain your cloud MD file.
[Music]
And there's another one at the bottom
that reminds cloud that there's a to-do
list that it can use via the tools. And
it shouldn't mention this to the users.
And this is what the IDE extension, the
VS code extension, the cloud code VS
code extension spits into your context.
And why it's useless is actually inside
the message because it itself says this
may or may not be related to the current
task. And at least in my workflows, it's
usually not related to my tasks because
while Claude is doing its thing, I open
up files from other projects or other
subm modules uh and and either refactor
by hand or do something that's unrelated
to the task that Claude is currently
working on. This is really annoying.
This poisons my context and confuses
Claude. Yeah, but so it so so it is.
What's even more interesting is that you
get access to the full system prompt. Um
you can run clot trace yourself to read
it in detail. There's nothing really
surprising in there. Um it's I suppose
well written. I mean you would assume
that entropic people of all the people
would know how to do this. The more
important part is the tools section. And
here you get to see what all the tools
tools internally actually do
which is very nice. Task is super
important. We're going to look at that
briefly later on. This basically spawns
another cloud code instance more or less
without all the context that's in your
current session. And your main clot with
which you talk will generate a prompt,
put it into that sub agent and have it
work on it.
And in your context, only the result
from the task agent will actually pop
up.
Bash we all know and love because it's a
versatile club. It never uses crap. It
never uses but it uses the command line
crap and that's crap. Uh ls it sometimes
uses exit plan mode. I don't care. Read
often used. Problem with that is uh
we'll see down below. Uh it doesn't just
give back the lines. It also has a 200
line limit. It also has a I think 65k
token limit or or 30k token limit. So
you can't read big files. You have to
read them in chunks.
Edit uh fails. I have a theory why that
is. Um we'll see later.
Multi-edit barely used
right. Yeah, nothing to say about that.
I don't do Jupyter notebooks. Web fetch
is funny because this actually doesn't
fetch the raw uh URL. Um presumably
because they don't want prompt
injection. So if you ask uh cloud code
to fetch a random URL and that the
content of that URL or behind that URL
has a prompt injection, there's a good
chance that that prompt injection might
trigger cloud code to extract
confidential or or sensitive information
from your local machine and send it to
someplace else. You would see this in
the UI, but if you step away from cloud
code and don't look at those logs,
congratulations, you just got [ __ ] So
what they do instead is they have an LLM
uh that actually fetches um the content,
summarizes it and the summary is given
back. So if you think web fetch will
actually fetch the raw data from that
URL, you're wrong. It does not. And we
can demonstrate that
to do read and write. Yeah, that's
obvious. Same thing as with web fetch.
Web search also doesn't give you raw
search results or injects raw search
results into cloud codes context. gives
it gives it a a summary, which is
usually decent, but I barely if ever use
this. It's I I'd rather have control
over what gets injected into my into my
prompt uh into my context. So, those are
things I'm working on at the moment. Big
surprise. This is too many tools. I know
this is going to get better. Promise. So
we had a look at the first user message
at the tools which you should read at
the system prompt which user should read
and then we can look at the assistant
messages and the tool calls. So the
first thing it did it was reading main C
issuing that request and the result of
read is u what you'd expect the lines
that claude requested in this case the
full file. The interesting part here is
that it prefixes all the content lines
with this. And I just saw that my UTF8
rendering apparently is broken. In any
case, I think this is the reason why
cloud gets confused when it actually
then writes to that file or updates that
file because this additional white space
from the read tool seems to slip into
the edit tools inputs that cloud
generates and then the edit tool itself
needs a perfect match, but it doesn't
get a perfect match anymore because
cloud has additional white space in the
old string and new string. We're going
to see that later maybe. And there's
also the raw tool call if you want that.
So here's the edit call, right? Uh and
the way the edit call uh is done is like
this.
It just gives the old string and gives
the new string and it needs to match
exactly which includes the uh white
space. And sometimes a little space or a
little tab will sneak in here. And I'm
pretty sure it's because the read tool
prefixes every line in the content with
whites space.
So yeah, um nothing really surprising
here in the remainder. Um use cloth
trace to better understand what's being
uh pushed into your context.
So back to context management,
there's also one more thing that hits
you frequently and it's the end of the
world or rather the end of your session
which is compacting the conversation.
Let's uh look at what that actually does
to your context.
illustrate my problem with compact
conversation, which is also your
problem. Um, I pulled up a little toy
project that's a little bigger than our
CMake project. It's called WIP Tunnel.
It's basically a T-Max um replacement
for the WIP coding age. Uh what it
allows you to do is uh create a terminal
session on a host
and then use cloud in it and then when
you're on the go um
you get a nice mobile interface to
interact with your clots on mobile and
check in on the work. Um you can find it
on Wet Tunnel AI. It's open source. So
good luck. Anyways, back to this. Uh
this is the source code. My domain is
the web folder. I previously generated a
spec MD which is supposed to minimize
the amount of turns code the cloud needs
to find things in the code. Um the way I
generated this is in cloud MD and I
rerun this every time I change something
in this module.
So when I start working on something in
this module, I first instruct claude to
read the specd file.
And once it has written read all of
this, it should be
it should be able to navigate the
codebase a little more efficiently.
And then we can start on our task. And
the task is that we want to replace the
format that's being used to
store and stream the standard out output
of each process on disk. We want to
optimize that to be less sucky.
Currently, we use the cinema format
which is a way to play back NC sequences
generated by a terminal in some client.
As you can see, this is JSON L. I want
this to be binary because it hurts my
heart.
So, hey, um I would like to replace the
cinema format we are currently using
with a binary format. um please
investigate where the format is written
and then write me free proposals um for
a binary format
and cloud code will probably use a task
uh tool call to do the investigation
or it just reads the a cinema writer
file which is the
oopsie where is it which is the place oh
yeah it just reads reads the cinema
writer which is the place where we write
out that format to disk
And then it also reads the front end
which is the cast converter which uh
gets that content from that file
and displays it in the terminal uh xterm
instance.
It then analyzes the current format
usage and data patterns and veers off
into searching stuff again.
But hopefully it doesn't take too long
to do that.
And while it's doing that, I'm going to
plug in my power supply.
But as you can see, it doesn't search
too often and it directly goes into
those files. What it doesn't do well is
read the entire [ __ ] file. It just
reads them bit by bit, which is not
great. And now it tried to access a
stream-out file which no longer exists
which leads me to believe that specd is
outdated.
Yep, we still say stream out is the file
that's being written but it's now called
standard out.
Right. So it's done understanding the
current format
and now it probably comes up with some
terrible binary format proposals.
But let's assume we've iterated on that
for an hour or so and the dreaded 10%
until compaction pops up down there.
What you going to do? Well,
if you miss that point and you run into
a compaction, you're in a world of hurt.
And we can simulate that with uh
directly invoking the compact command.
Come on, spit it out. What's your
proposal?
I need background music for this video.
Okay, so here's the proposal. Uh, it
wants to turn this, which is a header,
plus individual uh um outputs and inputs
and resize events into this
magic header because why not? A version
compression.
Ah, yeah, that's probably not a good
idea for this chunk size. Well, I can
already tell proposal one is garbage.
Oh, that was proposal two. But let's
assume we iterated on that. We took that
as the first draft and we iterated on
that just within this conversation. We
didn't store anything to disk. We didn't
modify any code. We just iterated on
that. And then bam, compaction happens.
So, how much of this is actually
retained uh in the compacted
conversation? And I can tell you it will
not retain any of these specifics at
least not to a level where you would be
confident uh continuing your work
and that hurts. Uh but there's a way to
kind of work around that. It's not
perfect and it's project project
specific. Um but it generally helps me
avoid this [ __ ]
So let's see. Compacting conversation
can also take a long time which is very
annoying.
And in this case, cloud code will at
least show us the summary that it
actually generated, which is helpful. So
we don't need to use claw trace to peak
behind the curtains.
Sadly though, the default UI
will not directly spit that out. It
would be helpful. Um so controlr and
then we see the actual compaction
blah blah blah blah blah. It basically
summarized was it what it did attempted
to read the file. This is all irrelevant
basically. And then the summary, primary
request, key technical concepts.
Okay. Files and code sections.
Okay. Okay. Okay. Where are the
proposals? Problem solving. All user
message. Current work. I don't see the
proposals in here anywhere.
Um Oh, yeah. Here they are.
Well, this isn't anything like
uh like this, right? So, if this was
actually handcrafted by you throughout
this conversation and you eventually
reach the final proposal that you're
happy with and that you now want to go
implement, well, you're [ __ ] because
it's basically gone. Now, in this case,
it's not hard to fix. You just look at
the last assistant message and copy and
paste that. But sometimes that
information is spread throughout the
entire conversation. So copy and pasting
and finding all those bits that you need
to retain is really [ __ ] hard. So we
can summarize that compact conversation
will kill your vibes. You will not be
able to recover from this uh if you
don't do it in a controlled way. Now one
way to control it is to invoke
compaction manually and then you can
optionally give instructions for
summarization and this is basically a
good idea until it's not. And the it's
not part is first it's hard to come up
with the perfect instructions for the
summarization one shot uh and you only
get one shot. If you call compact and
you provide super good summarization uh
prompt yourself instead of using the
default cloud code one and that still
[ __ ] up, you're [ __ ] again.
The other method is to just press escape
twice and go back as far as you can in
your session history
uh and try to recover before compaction.
So
this is the compaction prompt that cla
is sending
and we can just kill that and then we
can do the following. We can say okay
I want to continue this session. Um
please uh write a task-summd
file and summarize all the important
information throughout this conversation
regarding the binary uh protocol
proposals that you came up with. Please
also write out all the files that are
relevant to this task. Uh the goal is to
quit this session, create a new session,
and read in that task summary file so we
can continue our work.
And this might look like just using
/compact plus custom instructions. But
you will see there's some sense to this
madness and thinking that you're better
than the anthropic team in prompting.
Okay, so now it has written our task
summary. And the point of this is that
we can compare this before we quit the
session with the actual information
either what you can see in the last user
message or what you can re recall from
your own um uh uh uh conversation
history so to speak. Uh and we can
immediately see that this is not
exactly what we want. Um because it
didn't summarize the free proposals. It
should have just copy and pasted the
free proposals into this file basically.
But the thing is if we do this early
enough, if there's still room in the
context, we can iterate on this. And
this is a much better strategy than
using compact with custom instructions.
So let's yell at Claude. um you didn't
retain the binary protocol or binary
binary format uh proposals. Please
update task summary and keep the
proposals verbatim.
Again, loosey goosey.
We never talked about an implementation
plan. So, at this point, it basically
just made [ __ ] up. Maybe it knows it's
about to be ended.
I still haven't figured out what the
little hammers mean. It's not something
that's being shown here or anywhere else
really.
So yeah, this is closer to what we had
before, but it's still not really what
it proposed, right? So first proposal
it talks about a sequence number
events sequence number.
Nope. That also doesn't look like that.
But again just with writing the spec MD
or other state to disk. Never trust the
LLM to do what it's supposed to do.
Always check and recheck and fix it up
until it's good and then you can
continue. So for compact conversation
the plan is or the way I approach it is
if this says 20% until compaction I
start writing the tasks on remd file
like a madman and I make sure it's
perfect until the context is full or the
file is in a good state so I can
continue the work and once I'm done with
this I just quit the session open a new
session and tell it to read the spec MD
again
and the task summary
And hopefully with a good enough task
summary MD, you're back in a state where
you can continue the work that you did
before.
All right. So, for the final section of
this longass video, I'd like to show you
how I work with Claude um in an existing
code base.
My money-making endeavor is Spine, a 2D
skeleton animation editor and runtimes
for various game engines. You basically
create um characters. So, anything you
want to animate in the editor while
bones and meshes and all that good
stuff, animate those stuff uh those
things and then export them to a runtime
format. And then we have a bunch of
runtimes for specific languages. Um on
top of which we built integrations with
engines like Unity, Unreal, GoodDo,
Hakes, uh plain Android native apps, iOS
apps and so on and so forth. We
regularly release new versions and in
between versions the runtime code
responsible for loading and rendering um
exported skeletons um changes.
And we have a reference implementation
which is also used by the editor um
called spine lib gdx which is a java
based implementation of the runtime.
And the changes you see here between
version 2.2 uh 4.2 and 4.3 beta need to
be ported to all the other language
ports um that is uh C++ C dart uh swift
and so on and so forth. And as you can
see, this single change set between
those two versions is quite big. While
individual files might be might not have
that many changes or just cosmetic
changes like in this case with the
switch, other files might be entirely
new and big and nasty and contain a lot
of math like uh this one for example.
And porting that over is tedious, very
tedious and very errorprone. So I spent
a couple of nights figuring out a good
workflow, a reproducible workflow with
uh Claude that is as token and turn
efficient as I can make it. And it
turned out that essentially I'm using
claude as a new instruction set
architecture. It just doesn't have fixed
up codes. Uh your prompts are your
machine code or language in which you
write your program that cloud then
executes. And I'd like to show you how I
do this. Um I've created a bunch of
tools to enable this. Um the first one
is called LSP CLI.
And what it does is um let me
demonstrate.
Uh let's say I take um the spine lip gx
folder
the reference implementation
and I want to generate uh kind of like a
a database of all the symbols defined in
in in the source code of spine JDX. So I
can do this with LSP CLI. It will
install a Java LSP locally if it's not
there yet, completely isolated from your
LSPs in your VS Code and give it a
directory and the target language which
is Java in this case and it will go
through all the Java files in the
directory and output the symbols to a
nice little JSON file
which looks like this. A little header
what language we are using and the
directory where the source files in.
and then an array of nested symbols. So,
for example, this animation class here,
I think it doesn't have nested symbols.
Oh, it does. Timeline. Oh, it actually
does a lot. There's a lot of nested, uh,
classes. So the output from the LSP CLI
is basically the types um their
location, what kind of type they are,
their range within the file, um which is
super nice because Cloud can use this to
directly read just the lines it needs
for a specific type,
a preview of the first line of that
type, uh extract the Java docs for the
class, and then it also has the children
with the members like the fields and the
methods And also the inner types should
be in here. Let's see. Yeah, for
example, mix direction is an enum
defined inside of animation and so on.
So you might wonder why do this? Well,
the reason is for claude to get a symbol
like a class or an enum, it needs to go
through your codebase. So why not help
Claude and first create a map of your
entire codebase? And as you saw, this is
pretty big um codebase. um and took
almost no time to generate this. And now
Claude has all the information it needs
to pinpoint where a type is, what it's
composed of, if it has inner types, what
the signatures of things are. And this
is brilliant because Claude can use a
command line tool called jq um which
allows it to query um this like a
database. So we save Claude from going
through the codebase manually so to
speak with ls and glo and crap and rip
crap and so on and so forth. So that's
the first part optimize the way that
claude can find stuff in the codebase.
Um this is generated for both the
reference runtime so spine lip gx and
whatever runtime I want to port to say
spine C++.
The second tool I built is a little um
extension
called VS Clot. It's on the marketplace.
You can use it. Um this basically
installs an MCP server with uh Claude.
I'm not a big fan of MCP servers. Most
of them are useless, but this is the
only way to make this sane. And then
Claude can call into the MCP server to
open up files and divs, which is amazing
because my workflow is usually,
pick one of the Java files, um, open it
up in the editor, open up the diff in
fork, and then open up the target files
that is the CPP file. For example, if I
port to C++ and then start manually
going through line for going through
each line and and porting that over
painstakingly to C++. Um, now I want
port claw to do most of the porting for
me. Um, but I also need to review the
port because it needs to be perfect. So
instead of having this multiple window
setup that I used to have, I now let
claw just open up all the files inside
VS Code. So I can um more or less watch
it work and correct any errors it makes
when it ports a thing. Okay. So those
are tools I created to make this
workflow possible. And the workflow is
expressed in port.
Before that workflow is executed by
claude, I generate a porting plan which
basically generates the spine CPP spine
lip gdxing and then creates a file that
lets me keep track of the porting
status. So that has a metadata field
that says from which branch or commit to
which commit do we want to evaluate the
change set in the reference
implementation in spanip gdx.
Uh it says where the runtimes are. It
says what the target runtime is in this
case spine CPP
and that is all the information cloud
needs to know um where it can uh find
all the files needed for porting it can
query this with jq so the context isn't
poisoned and then I generate an array of
porting items if you want that is for
each Java source file I have a list of
types that are defined in it I list them
just briefly not the full details
because cloud can look that up in the
big fat LSP JSON files later on. But I
give it enough enough details to start
working which is the porting state. Are
we done with this? If yes, we can skip
this and move on to the next one. Uh the
candidate files meaning the files in the
target runtime we port to that clot
should work with modify if they exist.
If they don't exist, this is empty. Uh
and
a single Java file can contain multiple
types. So this is the reason why this is
an array.
Okay. So this is all the ground truth
data that cloud gets for me as a as a
one-time setup step when I start porting
changes from the reference runtime to
the target runtime. I basically just run
generate porting plan which takes the
runtime directory the two commits and
the language we want to port to and it
spits this out. And once I have this I
can start clot danger.
Oh, we're in the wrong directory. Let me
open a new
a new terminal. So, cloud danger.
And now I can just tell it readport.md
and execute it.
And port is our program. Port. MD uh
gives claude all the information it
needs to know what the porting plan
looks like. So, it can query it with jq.
It tells it about VScloud and the LSPJ
JSON files
and it tells it how to compile a single
C++ file for testing.
So after all of that information I
specify the workflow and this is
basically a program and cloud is the
computing um how do you call it
substrate that runs this code. Um it has
a step uh setup where it's instructed to
read the metadata from the porting plan
which it does here
just that field so it doesn't get
poisoned. Um and if you look at command
R command E we see that it does exactly
that. Um so it gets the port MD in here
which it needs then it executes JQ to
fetch the metadata. So only this is in
the context not the entire porting plan.
Then it reads something else. That's the
next step. Once it has the metadata, it
tries to read a target runtime
conventions file. That conventions file
and codes
all the coding patterns and styles we
use in the target runtime. And this is
not handwritten. It could be, but this
is also generated by Claude and it's
part of the workflow. If this file
doesn't exist, then just generate it
using task agents in parallel and figure
all this out and then write it to the
target runtime conventions MD file,
which is very nice. So now Claude not
only knows where to find symbols, but it
also knows how we work in this target
runtime in terms of memory management,
um, RTI, access modifiers, custom
collections and so on and so forth. So
everything I as a programmer working
with this target runtime know is now
pretty much encoded in here. And the
final part that it generates is um the
porting notes. I've already ported some
stuff. So this now has content while we
port individual types uh from the
porting plan. We take notes of
observations like in C++ we don't have
the two string methods. Methods with
matrix 3 aren't imported from Java to
C++. And as I keep porting, this fills
up with new observations. And every time
Claude ports a new thing
or every time I start a new session with
Claude using this workflow, it will read
the metadata so it knows where
everything is. It will read the
conventions so it knows how to work
within the target runtime when porting
and it will also read the porting notes
which will tell it about special cases,
edge cases um that we need to be mindful
of when porting. So, and if you look at
the context here, we are still in
control R land.
Um, it reads the conventions. It reads
the porting nodes
and then
it opens up all the files that we're
about to port. In this case, the next
type to port was Oopsie, sorry. The next
type to port was
this one event
it opens up all those files for me that
are involved importing. So this is the
Java file the current state. This is the
existing event.h H and event CPP which
might or might not have been imported
yet in full and then I also get the diff
of the Java file to see what changed and
I see only the documentation changed and
this changed from private to uh package
private. So this is great and as in an
old text adventure
cloud following the port MD.
So
it read all the metadata. It read the
conventions. It read the porting notes.
And then in a loop. It finds the next
pending type from the porting plan JSON
via jq. It also checks if there's
candidate files in there. The generate
porting plan can automatically fill that
up using the data from the LSP JSONs.
And once it has collected the next type
information, it opens up the Java file
and the Java kit. And if the candidate
files exist, it also opens up those
candidate files. So those are those four
files up here.
And then it stops and asks me if I want
to port this type. And I say hell yes.
And it will start filling up its context
with the additional info it needs. It
needs to read the full Java file. It
doesn't really have to. It could use the
location range uh from the porting plan
or from the spine gx json to just read
the lines that make up the type and if
the target file exists it also reads
that and for large files it needs to
read that in chunks because we need the
entire file in context and it's not
acceptable to only have parts of that in
file in the context. We also try to read
the parent types if they exist which is
also in here in the porting plan. Um,
let's see. Hierarchy, subtypes, super
types. I forgot what it's called.
Anyways, it would be in here somewhere.
Um,
or actually it would be in the in the
CPP thing. Parent types
hierarchy. Nope. Subtypes. I forgot. It
would be encoded in the LSPJSON files
what the type hierarchy is for a
specific type. And we need that to port
it. So it pulls in all that data. And if
you look what it's doing here now.
So it reads all the files and then it
reads the parent files.
Um it read in the Java file. It read in
theh file and CPP file of the candidate
from the candidate array. And then it
also reads event data because it saw
that uh being a type mentioned in the
Java file. It didn't have to reach into
any of the JSON files because it could
construct automatically the paths. So it
also reads in the corresponding C++ file
of the dependent type and then it starts
porting. And this is basically just
following the conventions. And if the
target file doesn't exist, create that
and open that up as well with VSclot
with the extension. In this case, we
already had those files. Then import
incrementally blah blah blah yada yada.
Ensure 100% functional parity and update
the Java doc, JS doc, doxygen, whatever
based on the Java docs. And in this case
uh it found that the C++ version of
event uh had renamed
methods. So originally in C++ we had get
int value and now we have get int
because in the Java version where is it?
We also have get int and set int and so
on and not get int value. So, it changed
that up.
Um, and it also changed it in the
implementation file in the C++ file
where the actual implementation is.
It opened up the
uh it compiled it just to make sure that
it didn't [ __ ] up. And then it opened up
the diff of the changed file. And this
is so much better than doing all of this
by hand. and it's reproducible and it's
token efficient because only the things
it actually needs for porting are in its
context and it can focus on that really
well. Um I can now say mark this is done
and now in our porting plan you will see
this pending switch over to done. It
uses jq for that.
There we go. And now it queries the next
pending type and away we go. So again
the big takeaway
your prompts or in this case my workflow
description is your programming
language. Your JSON and MD files are
your state
and your program
basically manipulates the state on disk
and queries it um to do the work just
like a regular program except super slow
compared to a proper uh CPU. But it
gives you the flexibility to express
workflows like this uh in natural
language. Um, and it's very helpful. As
you can see, um, I ported this without
any manual intervention apart from, um,
review. If it [ __ ] up the port or if
the file was more complex, I would
intervene and and, um, help it port over
parts more efficiently or in a in a way
that's more in alignment with the
conventions. I might also just go in
here and code things up myself if I feel
like I can do this faster than Claude
would do or better than Claude would do.
And this is the way you have to think
about this. If you use Claude uh code as
a coding buddy on an established uh
database uh on an established code base,
you need to give it all the information
but just enough information to complete
the task. And the test description
should probably be a workflow with
steps. Um, and it should have
checkpoints with you um to to um review
its work and not continue unless you
confirmed that the work so far is okay
and it can continue. I think this is the
only sane way to do something like
porting. If you try to singleshot this,
good luck. There's no chance you will
get anything out of uh anything of value
out of that. Um, but with this workflow,
I can work through those 68 files in
about a day and port this over this
change set of 5,000 changed lines and
modified lines. I can port this over in
a day instead of two weeks what it used
to take me. So yeah, the big takeaway
from this section,
cloud code is a programming language.
Your prompt is your program and your
files on disk are your state that you
can query and update.
And you need to make sure that you're
token efficient so Claude doesn't get
confused by um superfluous [ __ ] like
this IDE injected crap and can focus on
the task at hand and have enough tokens
left in the context window to do its
work efficiently without getting
confused or without starting to
hallucinate. plus have the human in the
loop which is yourself and add yourself
to your to your program so to speak as a
control mechanism. And with this kind of
workflow you actually will arrive at a
code quality that probably mirrors that
of what you would have gotten if you did
it by hand just faster.
So, let me close out. Um, that's about
all I can share with you. If you're
interested in things like setting up a
new project, um, I would suggest you
just look at all the information that's
out out there about that. Working on
green field projects is pretty easy. You
start by specking out a plan and then
implement the first draft of that and
then continue updating everything. We
already kind of talked about this. The
other thing I would like to tell you is
that I found MCP servers to be very
useless at least at the current stage.
Most of them will just poison your um
poison your context with um superfluous
tokens and information that confuse the
confuse the uh LLM.
You want to control this. You want to
know exactly what's in your context and
you want all the information to be just
minimal enough for claw to be able to
com to complete its task. Most MCPs
don't care. They just [ __ ] out a [ __ ]
ton of content into your context and
it's not working so well. Um, the only
MCP server apart from my VS Cloud
integration that allows it to open up
files in VS Code. The only other one is
Playrite or Puppeteer depending on what
I'm working on um to do front-end
development which allows cloud to
observe browser content basically and
manipulate them. So it can iterate on
front-end code and styles and stuff like
that. Um any MCP that pulls in
information from a database about a
framework or um yeah I don't know does a
talk stuff code indexing blah blah blah
that never works for me. this very
simple lsb based JSON based
database generation so to speak that
claude can autonomously query with jq
any way it sees it it it sees fit is
much more efficient both in the creation
step because this takes seconds and I
can do it over and over again and never
touch it if I'm happy with it and in the
query step because claude can just pick
out exactly that information that it
needs. This is so much better than
anything else I've tried. Um, and I can
only recommend you use something like
this yourself. Uh, what else is there to
say? Yeah. Um,
you need to understand your code whether
it's generated by LLM or cloud. If you
don't do this, you're going to be in a
world of hurt.
and um giving it a loop either like this
one I defined here where I am the one
that verifies the outcome and tells it
it succeeded or whether you give it um
tests that it can use to judge whether
it succeeded.
You need something like that in order
for cloud to not bug you every few
seconds about new input.
That said, Claude generates terrible
tests. um it often just mocks things
which is usually not what you want. And
even if it doesn't mock things, if it
runs into test failures and resolves
them, it will usually um basically
remove asserts or uh soften them up so
much that they don't assert anything. So
your tests become useless. I would
suggest to treat tests generated by
Claude as first drafts just like
anything else. and you need to manually
review them to check whether they
actually test what you want them to
test. It will still save you a [ __ ] ton
of time uh generating those first
drafts, but I strongly suggest to not
skip the reviewing part and the making
it actually useful part. Otherwise, you
have a 100,000 tests, some of which fail
randomly and you have no idea why, and
your CI is just going to kill your
wipes. So, yeah, that's about it. I
guess uh the parting uh words will be
follow not me necessarily but follow
these people. I'm working with them
together on VIP tunnel. Uh Peter is an
old friend of mine um and he does crazy
stuff with LLMs
and then Armen
uh of Flask and Sentry fame uh he's also
doing a lot of interesting things. He
recently posted his own talk on aentic
coding which I highly recommend you
watch. Um those two aren't fret boys
which means they don't just post
lowquality slop with regards to a
chantic coding but actually share
insightful information that you could
possibly work into your own workflows.
Um yeah that's about it. Thanks for
watching. I know this has been long but
I hope this was valuable.