Two Years of Emacs Solo: 35 Modules, Zero External Packages, and a Full Refactor
I've been maintaining Emacs Solo for a while now, and I think it's time to talk about what happened in this latest cycle as the project reaches its two-year mark.
For those who haven't seen it before, Emacs Solo is my daily-driver
Emacs configuration with one strict rule: no external packages.
Everything is either built into Emacs or written from scratch by me in
the lisp/
directory. No package-install
, no straight.el
, no
use-package :ensure t
pointing at ELPA or MELPA. Just Emacs and
Elisp. I'm keeping this post text only, but if you'd like to check how
Emacs Solo
looks and feels, the repository has screenshots and more
details.
Why? Partly because I wanted to understand what Emacs actually gives you out of the box. Partly because I wanted my config to survive without breakage across Emacs releases. Partly because I was tired of dealing with package repositories, mirrors going down in the middle of the workday, native compilation hiccups, and the inevitable downtime when something changed somewhere upstream and my job suddenly became debugging my very long (at the time) config instead of doing actual work. And partly, honestly, because it's a lot of fun!
This post covers the recent refactor, walks through every section of the core config, introduces all 35 self-contained extra modules I've written, and shares some thoughts on what I've learned.
Now, I'll be the first to admit: this config is long. But there's a principle behind it. I only add features when they are not already in Emacs core, and when I do, I try to build them myself. That means the code is sketchy sometimes, sure, but it's in my control. I wrote it, I understand it, and when it breaks, I know exactly where to look. The refactor I'm about to describe makes this distinction crystal clear: what is "Emacs core being tweaked" versus what is "a really hacky outsider I built in because I didn't want to live without it".
The Refactor: Core vs. Extras
The single biggest change in this cycle was architectural. Emacs
Solo used to be one big init.el
with everything crammed
together. That worked, but it had problems:
— It was hard to navigate (even with outline-mode
)
— If someone wanted just one piece, say my Eshell config or my VC extensions, they had to dig through thousands of lines
— It was difficult to tell where "configuring built-in Emacs" ended and "my own hacky reimplementations" began
The solution was clean and simple: split the config into two layers.
Layer 1: init.el
(Emacs core configuration)
This file configures only built-in Emacs packages and features. Every
use-package
block in here has :ensure nil
, because it's pointing
at something that ships with Emacs. This is pure, standard Emacs
customization.
The idea is that anyone can read init.el
, find a section they like, and
copy-paste it directly into their own config. No dependencies. No
setup. It just works, because it's configuring things Emacs already
has.
Layer 2: lisp/
(Self-contained extra modules)
These are my own implementations: replacements for popular external
packages, reimagined as small, focused Elisp files. Each one is a
proper provide
/require
module. They live under lisp/
and are
loaded at the bottom of init.el
via a simple block:
(add-to-list 'load-path (expand-file-name "lisp" user-emacs-directory))
(require 'emacs-solo-themes)
(require 'emacs-solo-movements)
(require 'emacs-solo-formatter)
;; ... and so on
If you don't want one of them, just comment out the require
line.
If you want to use one in your own config, just copy the .el
file
into your own lisp/
directory and require
it. That's it.
This separation made the whole project dramatically easier to maintain, understand, and share.
The Core: What init.el Configures
The init.el
file is organized into clearly labeled sections (using
outline-mode-friendly headers, so you can fold and navigate them
inside Emacs). Here's every built-in package and feature it touches,
and why.
General Emacs Settings
The emacs
use-package block is the largest single section. It sets
up sensible defaults that most people would want:
— Key rebindings: M-o
for other-window
, M-j
for
duplicate-dwim
, C-x ;
for comment-line
, C-x C-b
for
ibuffer
— Window layout commands bound under C-x w
(these are upcoming
Emacs 31 features: window-layout-transpose
,
window-layout-rotate-clockwise
, window-layout-flip-leftright
,
window-layout-flip-topdown
)
— Named frames: C-x 5 l
to select-frame-by-name
, C-x 5 s
to
set-frame-name
, great for multi-frame workflows
— Disabling C-z
(suspend) because accidentally suspending Emacs in
a terminal is never fun
— Sensible file handling: backups and auto-saves in a cache/
directory, recentf
for recent files, clean buffer naming with
uniquify
— Tree-sitter auto-install and auto-mode (treesit-auto-install-grammar t
and treesit-enabled-modes t
, both Emacs 31)
— delete-pair-push-mark
, kill-region-dwim
, ibuffer-human-readable-size
, all the small quality-of-life settings coming in Emacs 31
Abbrev
A full abbrev-mode setup with a custom placeholder system. You
define abbreviations with ###1###
, ###2###
markers, and when the
abbreviation expands, it prompts you to fill in each placeholder
interactively. The ###@###
marker tells it where to leave point
after expansion. I wrote a whole article about it.
Auth-Source
Configures auth-source
to use ~/.authinfo.gpg
for credential
storage. Simple but essential if you use Gnus, ERC, or any
network-facing Emacs feature.
Auto-Revert
Makes buffers automatically refresh when files change on disk. Essential for any Git workflow.
Conf / Compilation
Configuration file mode settings and a compilation-mode
setup
with ANSI color support, so compiler output actually looks readable.
Window
Custom window management beyond the defaults, because Emacs window management out of the box is powerful but needs a little nudging.
Tab-Bar
Tab-bar configuration for workspace management. Emacs has had tabs since version 27, and they're genuinely useful once you configure them properly.
RCIRC and ERC
Two IRC clients, both built into Emacs, both configured. ERC gets the bigger treatment: logging, scrolltobottom, fill, match highlighting, and even inline image support (via one of the extra modules). The Emacs 31 cycle brought nice improvements here too, including a fix for the scrolltobottom/fill-wrap dependency issue.
Icomplete
This is where Emacs Solo's completion story lives. Instead of
reaching for Vertico, Consult, or Helm, I use icomplete-vertical-mode
,
which is built into Emacs. With the right settings it's surprisingly
capable:
(setq icomplete-delay-completions-threshold 0)
(setq icomplete-compute-delay 0)
(setq icomplete-show-matches-on-no-input t)
(setq icomplete-scroll t)
I've also been contributing patches upstream to improve icomplete's vertical rendering with prefix indicators. Some of those features are already landing in Emacs 31, which means the polyfill code I carry today will eventually become unnecessary.
Dired
A heavily customized Dired setup. Custom listing switches, human
readable sizes, integration with system openers (open
on macOS,
xdg-open
on Linux), and the dired-hide-details-hide-absolute-location
option from Emacs 31.
WDired
Writable Dired, so you can rename files by editing the buffer directly.
Eshell
This one I'm particularly proud of. Emacs Solo's Eshell configuration includes:
— Shared history across all Eshell buffers: Every Eshell instance reads from and writes to a merged history, so you never lose a command just because you ran it in a different buffer
— Custom prompts: Multiple prompt styles you can toggle between
with C-c t
(full vs. minimal) and C-c T
(lighter vs. heavier
full prompt)
— A custom welcome banner with keybinding hints
— History size of 100,000 entries with deduplication
Isearch
Enhanced incremental search with sensible defaults.
VC (Version Control)
This is one of the largest sections and one I'm most invested in.
Emacs's built-in vc
is an incredible piece of software that most
people overlook in favor of Magit. I'm not saying it replaces Magit
entirely, but with the right configuration it covers 95% of daily
Git operations:
— Git add/reset from vc-dir: S
to stage, U
to unstage,
directly in the vc-dir
buffer. Admittedly, I almost never use this
because I'm now used to the Emacs-style VC workflow: C-x v D
or C-x v =
, then killing what I don’t want, splitting what isn’t ready yet,
and finishing with C-c C-c
. Amending with C-c C-e
is
awesome. Still useful once or twice a semester.
— Git reflog viewer: A custom emacs-solo/vc-git-reflog
command
with ANSI color rendering and navigation keybindings
— Browse remote: C-x v B
opens your repository on GitHub/GitLab
in a browser; with a prefix argument it jumps to the current
file and line
— Jump to current hunk: C-x v =
opens the diff buffer scrolled
to the hunk containing your current line
— Switch between modified files: C-x C-g
lets you
completing-read
through all modified/untracked files in the
current repo
— Pull current branch: A dedicated command for git pull origin <current-branch>
— Emacs 31 settings: vc-auto-revert-mode
,
vc-allow-rewriting-published-history
,
vc-dir-hide-up-to-date-on-revert
Smerge / Diff / Ediff
Merge conflict resolution and diff viewing. Ediff configured to split windows sanely (side by side, not in a new frame).
Eldoc
Documentation at point, with eldoc-help-at-pt
(Emacs 31) for
showing docs automatically.
Eglot
The LSP client that ships with Emacs. Configured with:
— Auto-shutdown of unused servers
— No event buffer logging (for performance)
— Custom server programs, including rassumfrassum for multiplexing TypeScript + ESLint + Tailwind (I wrote a whole post about that)
— Keybindings under C-c l
for code actions, rename, format, and
inlay hints
— Automatic enabling for all prog-mode
buffers except
emacs-lisp-mode
and lisp-mode
Flymake / Flyspell / Whitespace
Diagnostics, spell checking, and whitespace visualization. All built-in, all configured.
Gnus
The Emacs newsreader and email client. Configured for IMAP/SMTP usage.
Man
Manual page viewer settings.
Minibuffer
Fine-tuned minibuffer behavior, including completion-eager-update
from Emacs 31 for faster feedback during completion.
Newsticker
RSS/Atom feed reader built into Emacs. Customized with some extras I build my self for dealing with youtube feeds: thumbnail, transcripts, sending to AI for a quick summary, and so on.
Electric-Pair / Paren
Auto-closing brackets and parenthesis highlighting.
Proced
Process manager (like top
, but inside Emacs).
Org
Org-mode configuration, because of course.
Speedbar
File tree navigation in a side window. With Emacs 31, speedbar
gained speedbar-window
support, so it can live inside your
existing frame instead of spawning a new one.
Time
World clock with multiple time zones, sorted by ISO timestamp (Emacs 31).
Uniquify
Buffer name disambiguation when you have multiple files with the same name open.
Which-Key
Key discovery. Built into Emacs since version 30.
Webjump
Quick web searches from the minibuffer. Configured with useful search engines.
Language Modes
Specific configurations for every language I work with, organized into three areas:
Common Lisp: inferior-lisp
and lisp-mode
with custom REPL
interaction, evaluation commands, and a poor man's SLIME/SLY setup
that actually works quite well for basic Common Lisp development.
Non-Tree-sitter: sass-mode
for when tree-sitter grammars
aren't available.
Tree-sitter modes: ruby-ts-mode
, js-ts-mode
,
json-ts-mode
, typescript-ts-mode
, bash-ts-mode
,
rust-ts-mode
, toml-ts-mode
, markdown-ts-mode
(Emacs 31),
yaml-ts-mode
, dockerfile-ts-mode
, go-ts-mode
. Each one
configured with tree-sitter grammar sources (which Emacs 31 is
starting to define internally, so those definitions will eventually
become unnecessary).
The Extras: 35 Self-Contained Modules
This is where the fun really is. Each of these is a complete,
standalone Elisp file that reimplements functionality you'd
normally get from an external package. They're all in lisp/
and
can be used independently.
I call them "hacky reimplementations" in the spirit of Emacs Solo: they're not trying to be feature-complete replacements for their MELPA counterparts. They're trying to be small, understandable, and good enough for daily use while keeping the config self-contained.
emacs-solo-themes
Custom color themes based on Modus. Provides several theme variants: Catppuccin Mocha, Crafters (the default), Matrix, and GITS. All built on top of Emacs's built-in Modus themes by overriding faces, so you get the accessibility and completeness of Modus with different aesthetics.
emacs-solo-mode-line
Custom mode-line format and configuration. A hand-crafted
mode-line that shows exactly what I want: buffer state indicators,
file name, major mode, Git branch, line/column, and nothing else.
No doom-modeline
, no telephone-line
, just format strings and
faces.
emacs-solo-movements
Enhanced navigation and window movement commands. Extra commands for moving between windows, resizing splits, and navigating buffers more efficiently.
emacs-solo-formatter
Configurable format-on-save with a formatter registry. You
register formatters by file extension (e.g., prettier
for .tsx
,
black
for .py
), and the module automatically hooks into
after-save-hook
to format the buffer. All controllable via a
defcustom
, so you can toggle it on and off globally.
emacs-solo-transparency
Frame transparency for GUI and terminal. Toggle transparency on your Emacs frame. Works on both graphical and terminal Emacs, using the appropriate mechanism for each.
emacs-solo-exec-path-from-shell
Sync shell PATH into Emacs. The classic macOS problem: GUI Emacs
doesn't inherit your shell's PATH
. This module solves it the same
way exec-path-from-shell
does, but in about 20 lines instead of a
full package.
emacs-solo-rainbow-delimiters
Rainbow coloring for matching delimiters. Colorizes nested parentheses, brackets, and braces in different colors so you can visually match nesting levels. Essential for any Lisp, and helpful everywhere else.
emacs-solo-project-select
Interactive project finder and switcher. A completing-read
interface for finding and switching between projects, building on
Emacs's built-in project.el
.
emacs-solo-viper-extensions
Vim-like keybindings and text objects for Viper. If you use
Emacs's built-in viper-mode
(the Vim emulation layer), this
extends it with text objects and additional Vim-like commands. No
Evil needed.
emacs-solo-highlight-keywords
Highlight TODO and similar keywords in comments. Makes TODO
,
FIXME
, HACK
, NOTE
, and similar keywords stand out in source
code comments with distinctive faces. A small thing that makes a
big difference.
emacs-solo-gutter
Git diff gutter indicators in buffers. Shows added, modified,
and deleted line indicators in the margin, like diff-hl
or
git-gutter
. Pure Elisp, using vc-git
under the hood.
emacs-solo-ace-window
Quick window switching with labels. When you have three or more
windows, this overlays single-character labels on each window so
you can jump to any one with a single keystroke. A minimal
reimplementation of the popular ace-window
package.
emacs-solo-olivetti
Centered document layout mode. Centers your text in the window
with wide margins, like olivetti-mode
. Great for prose writing,
Org documents, or any time you want a distraction-free centered
layout.
emacs-solo-0x0
Upload text and files to 0x0.st. Select a region or a file and upload it to the 0x0.st paste service. The URL is copied to your kill ring. Quick and useful for sharing snippets.
emacs-solo-sudo-edit
Edit files as root via TRAMP. Reopen the current file with root
privileges using TRAMP's /sudo::
prefix. A reimplementation of the
sudo-edit
package.
emacs-solo-replace-as-diff
Multi-file regexp replace with diff preview. Perform a search-and-replace across multiple files and see the changes as a diff before applying them. This one turned out to be more useful than I expected.
emacs-solo-weather
Weather forecast from wttr.in. Fetches weather data from wttr.in and displays it in an Emacs buffer. Because checking the weather shouldn't require leaving Emacs.
emacs-solo-rate
Cryptocurrency and fiat exchange rate viewer. Query exchange rates and display them inside Emacs. For when you need to know how much a bitcoin is worth but refuse to open a browser tab.
emacs-solo-how-in
Query cheat.sh for programming answers. Ask "how do I do X in
language Y?" and get an answer from cheat.sh
displayed right in Emacs. Like howdoi
but simpler.
emacs-solo-ai
AI assistant integration (Ollama, Gemini, Claude). Send prompts
to AI models directly from Emacs. Supports multiple backends:
local Ollama, Google Gemini, and Anthropic Claude. The response
streams into a buffer. No gptel
, no ellama
, just
url-retrieve
and some JSON parsing.
emacs-solo-dired-gutter
Git status indicators in Dired buffers. Shows Git status
(modified, added, untracked) next to file names in Dired, using
colored indicators in the margin. Think diff-hl-dired-mode
but
self-contained.
emacs-solo-dired-mpv
Audio player for Dired using mpv. Mark audio files in Dired,
hit C-c m
, and play them through mpv. You get a persistent mpv
session you can control from anywhere with C-c m
. A mini music
player that lives inside your file manager.
emacs-solo-icons
File type icon definitions for Emacs Solo. The icon registry that maps file extensions and major modes to Unicode/Nerd Font icons. This is the foundation that the next three modules build on.
emacs-solo-icons-dired
File type icons for Dired buffers. Displays file type icons next to file names in Dired. Uses Nerd Font glyphs.
emacs-solo-icons-eshell
File type icons for Eshell listings. Same as above but for
Eshell's ls
output.
emacs-solo-icons-ibuffer
File type icons for ibuffer. And again for the buffer list.
emacs-solo-container
Container management UI for Docker and Podman. A full
tabulated-list-mode
interface for managing containers: list,
start, stop, restart, remove, inspect, view logs, open a shell.
Works with both Docker and Podman. This one started small and grew
into a genuinely useful tool.
emacs-solo-m3u
M3U playlist viewer and online radio player. Open .m3u
playlist files, browse the entries, and play them with mpv. RET
to
play, x
to stop. Great for online radio streams.
emacs-solo-clipboard
System clipboard integration for terminals. Makes copy/paste work correctly between Emacs running in a terminal and the system clipboard. Solves the eternal terminal Emacs clipboard problem.
emacs-solo-eldoc-box
Eldoc documentation in a child frame. Shows eldoc
documentation in a floating child frame near point instead of the
echo area. A reimplementation of the eldoc-box
package.
emacs-solo-khard
Khard contacts browser. Browse and search your khard address book from inside Emacs. Niche, but if you use khard for contact management, this is handy.
emacs-solo-flymake-eslint
Flymake backend for ESLint. Runs ESLint as a Flymake checker for JavaScript/TypeScript files. Disabled by default now that LSP servers handle ESLint natively, but still available if you prefer the standalone approach.
emacs-solo-erc-image
Inline images in ERC chat buffers. When someone posts an image URL in IRC, this fetches and displays the image inline in the ERC buffer. A small luxury that makes IRC feel more modern.
emacs-solo-yt
YouTube search and playback with yt-dlp and mpv. Search YouTube from Emacs, browse results, and play videos (or just audio) through mpv. Because sometimes you need background music and YouTube is right there.
emacs-solo-gh
GitHub CLI interface with transient menu. A transient-based
menu for the gh
CLI tool. Browse issues, pull requests, run
actions, all from a structured Emacs interface without memorizing
gh
subcommands.
Emacs 31: Looking Forward
Throughout the config you'll see comments tagged ; EMACS-31
marking features that are coming (or already available on the
development branch). Some highlights:
— Window layout commands: window-layout-transpose
,
window-layout-rotate-clockwise
, and flip commands. Finally,
first-class support for rearranging window layouts
— Tree-sitter grammar sources defined in modes: No more
manually specifying treesit-language-source-alist
entries for
every language
— markdown-ts-mode
: Tree-sitter powered Markdown, built-in
— Icomplete improvements: In-buffer adjustment, prefix indicators, and better vertical rendering
— Speedbar in-frame: speedbar-window
lets the speedbar live
inside your frame as a normal window
— VC enhancements: vc-dir-hide-up-to-date-on-revert
,
vc-auto-revert-mode
, vc-allow-rewriting-published-history
— ERC fixes: The scrolltobottom/fill-wrap dependency is finally resolved
— native-comp-async-on-battery-power
: Don't waste battery
on native compilation
— kill-region-dwim
: Smart kill-region behavior
— delete-pair-push-mark
: Better delete-pair with mark
pushing
— World clock sorting: world-clock-sort-order
for sensible
timezone display
I tag these not just for my own reference, but so that anyone reading the config can see exactly which parts will become cleaner or unnecessary as Emacs 31 stabilizes. Some of the polyfill code I carry today, particularly around icomplete, exists specifically because those features haven't landed in a stable release yet.
What I've Learned
This latest cycle of working on Emacs Solo taught me a few things worth sharing.
Emacs gives you more than you think. Every time I set out to
"reimplement" something, I discovered that Emacs already had 70% of
it built in. vc
is far more capable than most people realize.
icomplete-vertical-mode
is genuinely good. tab-bar-mode
is a
real workspace manager. proced
is a real process manager. The gap
between "built-in Emacs" and "Emacs with 50 packages" is smaller
than the community often assumes.
Writing your own packages is the best way to learn Elisp. I
learned more about Emacs Lisp writing emacs-solo-gutter
and
emacs-solo-container
than I did in years of tweaking other
people's configs. When you have to implement something from
scratch, you're forced to understand overlays
, process filters
, tabulated-list-mode
, transient
, child frames
,
and all the machinery that packages usually hide from you.
Small is beautiful. Most of the modules in lisp/
are under
200 lines. Some are under 50. They don't try to handle every edge
case. They handle my edge cases, and that's enough. If someone
else needs something different, the code is simple enough to fork
and modify.
Contributing upstream is worth it. Some of the things I built as workarounds (like the icomplete vertical prefix indicators) turned into upstream patches. When you're deep enough in a feature to build a workaround, you're deep enough to propose a fix.
Conclusion
Emacs Solo started as a personal challenge: can I have a productive, modern Emacs setup without installing a single external package?
The answer, after this cycle, is a definitive yes.
Is it for everyone? Absolutely not. If you're happy with Doom Emacs or Spacemacs or your own carefully curated package list, that's great. Those are excellent choices.
But if you're curious about what Emacs can do on its own, if
you want a config where you understand every line, if you want
something you can hand to someone and say "just drop this into
~/.emacs.d/
and it works", then maybe Emacs Solo is worth a
look.
The repository is here: https://github.com/LionyxML/emacs-solo
It's been a lot of fun. I learned more in this cycle than in any previous one. And if anyone out there finds even a single module or config snippet useful, I'd be happy.
That's the whole point, really. Sharing what works.
Acknowledgements
None of this exists in a vacuum, and I want to give proper thanks.
First and foremost, to the Emacs core team. The people who
maintain and develop GNU Emacs are doing extraordinary work, often
quietly, often thanklessly. Every built-in feature I configure in
init.el
is the result of decades of careful engineering. The fact
that Emacs 31 keeps making things better in ways that matter
(tree-sitter integration, icomplete improvements, VC enhancements,
window layout commands) is a testament to how alive this project
is.
While working on Emacs Solo I also had the opportunity to contribute
directly to Emacs itself. I originally wrote markdown-ts-mode
,
which was later improved and integrated with the help and review of
Emacs maintainers. I also contributed changes such as aligning
icomplete
candidates with point in the buffer (similar to Corfu or
Company) and a few fixes to newsticker
.
I'm very grateful for the help, reviews, patience, and guidance from people like Eli Zaretskii, Yuan Fu, Stéphane Marks, João Távora, and others on the mailing lists.
To the authors of every package that inspired a module in
lisp/
. Even though Emacs Solo doesn't install external
packages, it is deeply influenced by them. diff-hl
, ace-window
,
olivetti
, doom-modeline
, exec-path-from-shell
, eldoc-box
,
rainbow-delimiters
, sudo-edit
, and many others showed me what
was possible and set the bar for what a good Emacs experience looks
like. Where specific credit is due, it's noted in the source code
itself.
A special thanks to David Wilson (daviwil) and the System Crafters community. David's streams and videos were foundational for me in understanding how to build an Emacs config from scratch, and the System Crafters community has been an incredibly welcoming and knowledgeable group of people. The "Crafters" theme variant in Emacs Solo exists as a direct nod to that influence.
To Protesilaos Stavrou (Prot), whose work on Modus themes, Denote, and his thoughtful writing about Emacs philosophy has shaped how I think about software defaults, accessibility, and keeping things simple. The fact that Emacs Solo's themes are built on top of Modus is no coincidence.
And to Gopar (goparism), whose Emacs content and enthusiasm for exploring Emacs from the ground up resonated deeply with the spirit of this project. It's encouraging to see others who believe in understanding the tools we use.
To everyone who I probably forgot to mention, who has opened issues, suggested features, or just tried Emacs Solo and told me about it: thank you. Open source is a conversation, and every bit of feedback makes the project better.