What similar changes have you seen that
could compare to some extent to AI in
the technology field?
>> It's the biggest I think in my career. I
think if we looked back at the history
of software development as a whole, the
comparable thing would be the shift from
assembly language to the very first
highle languages. The biggest part of it
is the shift from determinism to
non-determinism and suddenly you're
working in a non with an environment
that's non-deterministic which
completely changes.
>> What is your understanding and take on
vibe coding? I think it's good for
explorations. It's good for throwaways,
disposable stuff, but you don't want to
be using it for anything that's going to
have any long-term capability. When
you're using vibe coding, you're
actually removing a very important part
of something, which is the learning
loop. What are some either new workflows
or new software engineering approaches
that you've kind of observed? One area
that's really interesting is Martin
Fowler is a highly influential author
and software engineer [music] in domains
like agile, software architecture, and
refactoring. He is one of the authors of
the Agile Manifesto in 2001, the author
of the popular book Refactoring, [music]
and regularly publishes articles on
software engineering on his blog. In
today's episode, we discuss how AI is
changing software engineering, and
[music] some interesting and new
software engineering approaches LLMs
enable, why refracting as a practice
[music] will probably get more relevant
with AI coding tools, why design
patterns seem to have gone out of style
the last decade, what the impact of AI
is on agile practices, and [music] many
more. This podcast episode is presented
by Statsig, the unified platform for
flags, [music] analytics, experiments,
and more. Check out the show notes to
learn more about them and our other
season sponsor. If you enjoy the show,
please subscribe to the podcast on any
podcast platform and on YouTube. So,
Martin, welcome to the podcast.
>> Well, thank you very much for having me.
I didn't expect to be actually doing it
face to face with you. That was rather
nice.
>> It's all the better this way. Uh I
wanted to start with learning a little
bit on how you got into software
development which was what 40ish years
ago.
>> Yeah. It was yeah it would have been uh
late 70s early 80s. Yeah. I mean like so
many things it was kind of accidental
really. Um at school I was clearly no
good at writing because I got lousy
marks for anything to do with writing.
>> Really?
>> Yeah. Oh absolutely. Um, but I was quite
good at mathematics and that kind of
thing and physics. So, I kind of leaned
towards engineering stuff and I was
interested in electronics and things cuz
the other thing is I'm hopeless with my
hands. I can't do anything requires
strength or physical coordination.
So, all sorts of areas of engineering
and building things, you know, I've
tried looking after my car and, you
know, I couldn't get the the rusted nuts
off or anything. You know, it was
hopeless. So, but electronics is okay
because that's all very, you know, it's
more than in the brain than, you know,
you need to be able to handle a
soldering iron, but that was about as
much as I needed to do. And then
computers and it step easy. I don't even
need a soldering iron. So, I kind of
drifted into computers in that kind of
way. And uh that was my route into into
software development. Before I went to
university, I had a year um at working
with the UK at Atomic Energy Authority.
Wow. or ukulele as as we call it. Um and
I did some programming in forran 4 and
um it seemed like a good thing to be
able to do. And then when I finished my
degree, which was a mix of electronic
engineering, computer science, I looked
around and I thought, well, I could go
into traditional engineering jobs, which
weren't terribly well paid and weren't
terribly high status, or I could go into
computing where it looked like there was
a lot more opportunity. And so I just
drifted into computing. And and this was
before the internet took off. This was
>> what what what kind of jobs were there
back then that that you could get into?
What was and what was your first job?
>> Well, my first job was with a consulting
company Koopers and Librand or as I
refer to them, Cheetum and Lightum
and um we were doing advice on
information strategy in the particular
group I was with although that wasn't my
job. My job was I was one of the few
people who knew Unix because I'd done
Unix at college and so I looked after a
bunch of workstations that they needed
to do to run this weird software that
they were running to help them do their
strategy work and then I got interested
in the what they were doing with their
strategy work and kind of drifted into
that. I look at it back now and think,
god, that was a lot of snake oil
involved. But hey, it was my route into
the into the industry and it got me
early into the world of object-oriented
thinking and that was extremely useful
to get into objects in the mid80s
>> and and how how did you get into like
object-oriented was back then back we're
talking probably the mid80s that was a
very kind of radical thing
>> and you said you were working at a
consulting company which didn't seem
like the most cutting edge. So how does
a two plus two get together? How did you
get to do cutting edge stuff?
>> Because this little group was into
cutting edge stuff and they had run into
this guy who had some interesting ideas,
some some very good ideas as well as
some slightly crazy ideas. And he
packaged it up with the term object
orientation, which wasn't really the
case, but it was it kind of, you know,
it's part of a snake oil as it were. I
mean, that's a little bit cruel to call
it snake oil because he had some very
good ideas as well. Um but that kind of
led me into that direction and and of
course in time I've found out more about
what object orientation was really about
and uh that events led to my whole
career
>> in in the next 10 or 15 years. How did
you make your way and eventually end up
at Thought Works and and also you
started to write some some books, you
started to publish on the side. How did
you go go from like someone who was
brand new to the industry and kind of
wideeyed and just taking it all in,
learning things to starting to slowly
become someone who was teaching others?
>> Well, here again bundles of accidents,
right? So, while I was at that
consulting company, I met another guy
that they had brought in to help them
work with this kind of area, an American
guy um who became the really the biggest
mentor and influence upon my early
career. His name is Jim Odell and he had
been an early um adopter of information
engineering and had worked with in that
area and he was he saw the good parts of
uh these ideas that these these folks
were doing and he was an independent
consultant and a teacher and so he spent
a lot of his time doing work along those
lines. I left Coopers and Librand after
about a couple of years to actually join
this the crazy company which is called
PEK. Um and um I was with them for a
couple of years. It was a small company.
There was a grand total of four of us in
the UK office and that was the largest
office in the company.
>> Wow. [laughter]
>> Kind of thing. Um and um so I did I saw
a bit of you know having seen a big
company's um craziness. I then saw a
small company's craziness. did that for
a couple of years and then I was in a
position to go independent and I did um
helped greatly by Jim Odell who was um
who fed me a lot of work basically um
and also by some other work I got in the
U in the UK and that was great. I I
remember leaving PEK and thinking that's
it independence life for me. I'm never
going to work for a company again.
>> Famous last words.
>> Exactly. And um I carried on. I did well
as an independent consultant um
throughout the '9s and during that time
I wrote my first books. I moved to the
United States in 93
um and I was doing very very happily and
obviously got the rise of the internet,
lots of stuff going on in the late 90s.
It was a it was a good time and I ran
into this company called Fort Works and
they were just a client. I would just go
there and help them out. Yeah. The story
gets more. I had had met Kent Beck and
worked with Kent at Chrysler, the famous
C3 project, which is kind of the birth
project of extreme programming. So I'd
worked on that,
>> seen extreme programming, seen the agile
thing. So I'd got the object orientation
stuff, I got the agile stuff, and then I
came to Fort Works and uh they were in
tackling a big project, a big project
for them at the time. Still sizable,
about 100 people working on the project.
So, it's a sizable piece of work and it
it was clearly going to crash and burn.
Um, but I was able to help them um both
see what was going on and how to avoid
crashing and burning and they figured
out how to sort of recover from the from
the problem. Um, but then invited me to
join them and I thought, hey, you know,
join a company again maybe for a couple
of years. They're really nice people.
They're my favorite client. You know, I
I always thought of it as other clients
would say, "These are really good ideas,
but they're really hard to implement."
And while Thoughtworks would say, "These
are really good ideas. They're really
hard to implement, but we'll give it a
try." And they usually pulled it off.
And so I thought, "Hey, with a client
like that, I might as well join them for
a little while and and see what we can
do." That was 25 years ago.
>> Yeah. And then fast forward today, your
title has been for I think over a
decade, chief scientist.
>> Since I joined, that was my title at
join.
>> Since you joined. So I have to ask what
does a chief scientist at Thought Works
do?
>> Well, it's important to remember I'm
chief of nobody and I don't do any
science. [laughter]
The title was given because that title
was used a fair bit around that time for
some kind of public facing ideas kind of
person. If I remember correctly, Grady
Buch was chief scientist at Rational um
at the time
>> actually. True.
>> And um and there were other people who
had that title. So it was a it was a
high looting very pretentious title but
they felt it was necessary. It was weird
because one of the things of
Thoughtworks at that time was you could
choose your own job title. Anybody could
choose whatever job title they like. But
I didn't get to choose mine. I had to
take the chief scientist one. They
didn't like titles like flagpole or
battering ram or um [laughter]
or loudmouth which is the one I most
prefer. And one thing that Thought Works
does every six months and the latest one
just came out is the Thought Works Radar
>> and this latest radar, it just came out
I think a few days ago. It's the
>> Today it was launched I think
>> actually it was today. So by the time
this is in production it will have been
a few weeks but
>> uh it's actually really really fresh. So
I just looked at it and things that it
it lists. But I'll just list a few
things that I saw there and the adopting
which is the the ones that they
recommend using pre-commit hooks click
house for database analytics vlm this is
for learning LLM on on cloud or on
on-rem in a really efficient way for
trialing cloud code fast MCP which is an
MC framework for MCB servers and they're
they're also recommending a lot of
different things related for example to
AI and LMS to assess uh can you share a
little bit of how Thorkworks comes up
with this technology radar what's the
process And it it feels very very kind
of on the pulse every time like it feels
close to the pulse of the industry and
again I I talk with a lot of other
people. How do people at Thought Works
stay this close to what is happening in
the industry?
>> Okay. Yeah. Well, this will be a bit of
a story. Okay. So, it started just over
10 years or so ago. Its origin was one
of the things that we've really pushed
at footworks is to have technical
people, practitioners
really involved at v or various levels
of running the business and one of the
leaders of that um was our former CTO
Rebecca Parsons. So Rebecca became CTO
and she said I want an advisory board
who will keep me connected with what's
going on in projects. So she created
this technology advisory board and it
had a bunch of people whose job was to
brief her as to what was going on. We'd
meet you know two or three times a year.
She had me on the advisory board not so
much for that reason but because I was
very much sort of a public face of a
company. She wanted me present and
involved in that. And originally that
was just our brief. We would just get
together and we'd talk through this
stuff. And then one of these meetings um
Daryl Smith who was actually her TA at
the time technical assistant
um he um said we what we got all these
projects going on it would be good to
get some picture what kinds of
technologies we're using and how useful
they are and so as to better exchange
ideas because we like so many companies
we struggle to percolate good ideas
around enough I mean even then when
we're only just a few thousand it
struggled and we're 10,000 now so yeah
it's So we thought okay this is a nice
idea and he came up with this idea of
the radar metaphor and the rings of the
radar that we see today and we had
little meeting and we created the radar
and it's it's a habit if we do something
for internal purposes we try and just
make it public
>> and that's always been a strong part of
the works ethos it's part of why I'm
there of course is you know we just we
talk about everything that we do and we
share everything we we we give away our
secret source all the time so we did
that and people were very interested and
so we continued doing it now the process
has changed changed a bit over time. At
that original meeting, many of the
people that were in the room were
actually hands-on on projects, advising
clients all the time. Now, as we've
grown an order of magnitude, um it's
much harder to do that. And we've also
created more of a process where people
can submit blips, nominate them. A blip
is being a point on the radar, an entry
>> and um they will go to somebody that uh
either connected through geographically
or through the line of business or or
technology or whatever and say, "Hey, we
think this technology is interesting."
They'll brief us a little bit about it.
And then they brief the members of the
what's now called the Doppler group
because we make a radar. Yeah. I mean,
we can be a bit loose with our metaphors
at times. Um and they and then at the
meeting we'll decide which of these
blips to put on the radar and not and
obviously you get some crosspollination
because somebody will say oh yeah I
talked to somebody about this as well
and and so it's very much this bottomup
exercise
and that's how it's created now. So we
will have these we will do blip
gathering sessions about a month or two
before the radar meeting and gradually
shake them up and then in the meeting
itself we go through them one by one and
for me it's a bit weird because I'm so
detached from the day-to-day these days
that it's just this this lineup of
technologies and things I have no idea
what most of them are but interesting to
hear about and sometimes I latch on to
certain themes or something like that.
Um and that was an important part of
microservices about 10 years ago because
that came up in through that radar
process and uh we got together with
James Lewis and we ended up writing a
good bit further about that. Um but
that's really what happens is we go
through this process of spotting this
stuff.
>> Yeah. And and the the radar analogy I
know some companies also take the idea
which by the way Thoughtworks encourages
saying make your own radar take it in
your own company. You can I think they
even like have tools around it. I really
like how Thoughtworks never said like
this is the thing for the industry. They
said this is the thing for us. This is
what we see. This is what we recommend
our team our team members or or maybe
our our clients to consider or there's
also I like that there's a hold maybe
just be beware. We're we're not seeing
great results with this and and here's
the reasons for it. And yeah, I guess
the reason it feels fresh is uh probably
a lot of work that Thork works does is
it feels cutting edge because it's all
it's all about half of it or a third of
it feels that it is around the hottest
topic right now AI LMS and and all the
techniques that people are trying to see
if they work or are the things that we
are seeing that actually starts to work.
Yeah, I mean what I mean for works has
basically got several thousand
technologists all over the world doing
projects of various kinds to all sorts
of different organizations
and the radar is a mechanism that we've
discovered is a way of getting some of
that information out of their heads and
spreading it around both internally and
to the industry as a whole. And you're
right, I it is a recommended thing for
clients to do is to try and do their own
radars. It's slightly different when
it's a client radar thing because
sometimes there it can be more of a this
is what we think you should be doing
with a bit more of a forcefulness to it
than than we would give and also they
can be a bit more choosy in the sense of
they can say yeah we're just not
interested in doing certain technologies
while for us it's a case if our clients
are doing it then we we're going to find
out about it right we have to use it
>> of course the the radar is full with a
lot of AI and LM related things because
this is a huge change in in my
professional career, it it feels by far
the biggest technology innovation
changes coming in. Looking back on your
career, what similar changes have you
seen that could compare to some extent
to AI in the technology field? I
>> it's the biggest I think for my career.
I think if we looked back at the history
of software development as a whole, the
comparable thing would be the shift from
assembly language to the very first
highle languages which is before my time
right when we when first started coming
up with cobalt and forran and the like I
would imagine that would be a similar
level of shift.
>> So you started to work with forran and
you probably knew people who were still
doing assembly or at least knew knew
some of people from that generation.
>> There was a bit of assemble around when
I was working still from from what you
picked up around that time. uh what was
that shift like in terms of mindset or
or you know like because it it was a big
change right you really needed to know
the internals of the hardware and the
instructions and the the different
>> uh I I did very little assembly at
university but it it's been very useful
because I never want to do it again
[laughter]
>> very wise but but what did you pick up
in in terms of what needed to change and
and how it changed the industry just
moving from mostly assembly to mostly
higher level languages
>> well I mean for a start as you said
things were very specific to individual
chips. You had the instructions were
different on every chip. The you know as
well things like registers where you
access memory. You had these very
convoluted ways of doing even the
simplest thing because your only
instruction was for something like move
this value from a memory location to
this register. Um and you so you've
always got to be thinking in these very
very low-level forms and even the very
relatively poor um high level language
like forran at least I can write things
like conditional statements and loops
else is in my conditional statements in
forran 4 but I can at least go if and I
can get one statement I can't do a block
of statements I have to use go-tos but
you know it's better than what you can
do in assembly right and so there's a
definite shift of moving away from the
hardware to thinking in terms of
something a bit more abstract and I
think that is a very very big shift and
then of course once I'm using forran I
can be insulated to some degree away
from the hardware I'm running on. I'm
now am I running this on a main on a
mainframe? Am I running this on a mini
computer? I mean there's there's issues
because the language is always varied a
little bit from place to place but
you've got a degree of decoupling there.
Um that was really quite significant I
think. I mean I only did it on small uh
microprocessor like units because again
it was the electronic engineering part
right so we were fairly close to the
metal anyway for some of that um but um
you you definitely had that mind shift
and I I think it's with LLMs it's a
similar degree of mind shift although as
I've you know written about it I the
interesting thing is the shift is not so
much of an increase of a level of
abstraction although there is a bit of
that the biggest part of it is the shift
from determinism to non-determinism and
suddenly you're working in a non with an
environment that's non-deterministic
which completely changes you have to
think about it Martin just talked about
how AI is the most disruptive change
since the move from assembly to highle
languages that transition wasn't just
about changing the language we use they
required entirely new tool chains
similarly AI accelerated development
isn't just about shipping faster it's
about measuring whether what you ship
actually delivers value that's where
modern experimentation infrastructure
comes in and we're presenting sponsor
stats can help. With stats, instead of
stitching together point solutions, you
get feature flags, analytics, and
session replay all using the same user
assignments and event tracking. For
example, you ship a feature to 10% of
users. As you do, the other 90%
automatically become your control group
with the same event taxonomy. You can
immediately see conversion rate
differences between groups. drill down
to see where treatment users drop off in
your funnel. Then watch session
recordings of specific users who didn't
convert to understand what went wrong.
The alternative is running jobs between
different services to sync user segments
between your feature flag service and
your analytics warehouse and then
manually linking up data that might have
different user identification logic.
It's a lot of work and it can also go
wrong. Static has a generous free tier
to get started and pro pricricing for
teams starts at $150 per month. To learn
more and get a 30-day enterprise trial,
go to stats.com/pragmatic.
And now, let's get back to the shift in
abstraction with LLMs. Can we talk about
that shift in abstraction? Because one
very naive or naive way of looking at is
saying like, well, we we've had the
three levels, right? We have assembly
where you have commands for the
hardware. You need to be intimately
aware of the hardware. We have high
level programming languages starting
with C later Java later JavaScript and
uh where you don't need to be aware of
the hardware you're aware of the logic
and what you might say as well we have a
new abstraction is you have the English
language which will you know generate
this code you're saying you don't think
it's an abstraction jump why do you
think this is
>> I think there's a bit of an abstraction
jump I think the abstraction jump
difference is smaller than the
determinism nondeterminism jump and it's
it's worth remembering one of the key
things about highle languages anguages
which I didn't mention as I was talking
about earlier on is the ability to
create your own abstractions in that
language that is particularly important
as you get to things like object
orientation towards u more um expressive
functional languages like lisp which
didn't really have so much in I mean
forran and cobalt you could do that to
some extent um because because at least
with forran you can create subutines and
build abstractions out of that but
you've got so many more tools for
building abstractions when you've got
the the abilities of more modern
languages and that ability to build
abstractions is crucial.
>> So you can build a building block inside
of the language that sets you and of
course here we have like domain driven
development later enables these things
and so on.
>> Exactly. I mean an old lisp adage is
really what you want to do is to create
your own language in lisp and then solve
your problem using the language that
you've created. And I think that way of
thinking is a good way of thinking in
any programming language. you're both
solving the problem and creating a
language to to describe the kinds of
problems you're trying to solve in. And
if you can balance those two nicely,
that is what leads to very maintainable
and flexible code. So the building of
abstractions that's I think to me a key
element of high level languages and AI
helps us a little bit in that because we
can build abstractions a bit more easily
a bit more fluidly but we have this
problem and now we're talking about
non-deterministic implementations of
those abstractions which is an issue and
we've got to sort of learn a whole new
set of balancing tricks um to get around
that. My colleague Unmesh Jooshi has
been has written a couple of things um
that I really been really enjoying about
his thinking about how because he's
really pushing this using the LLM to
co-build an abstraction and then using
the abstraction to talk more effectively
to the LLM and that I'm finding really
really interesting way of thinking about
how he's working with that because he's
really pushing that direction. There's a
a thing I read in and I can't remember
the book off the top of my head. We'll
have to dig it out later that talked
about how apparently if you can describe
to an LLM a whole load of chess matches
and describe it just in plain English
and the LLM when you do that the LLM
can't really understand how to play
chess. But if you take those same chess
matches and describe the LLM to those
chess matches in chess notation then it
can. And I thought that was really
interesting that you that by obviously
you're shrinking down the the token size
because you've but you're also using a
rigorous a much more rigorous notation
to describe the problem. So maybe that's
an angle of how we use LLM. What we have
to come up is a rigorous way of speaking
and we can get more traction that way.
And of course that has great parallels
in with the ideas of domain driven
design in ubiquitous languages and also
some of the stuff that I was working on
a decade or so ago around domain
specific languages and language
workbenches. So I there's some
fascinating stuff around there that be
interesting to see how that plays out.
>> Yeah. Yeah. And I guess is this the
first time we're seeing a tool that is
so wide in software engineering that is
nondeterministic because we did have
neural nets for example in the past they
were not but they were more I feel the
application of those was a lot more kind
of niche and not not everywhere now
every single developer is I mean if
you're using code generation you are
using non-deterministic things of course
we're integrating them left and right
trying out where it works. Is is it fair
to say that this is probably the first
time we're facing this challenge of
deterministic computers which we know
very well. We know their their limits
and all those things and of course
there's some race conditions and some
exotic things but now we have
>> exactly problem to solve for
>> it's a whole new way of thinking. It's
got some interesting parallels to other
forms of engineering. Other forms of
engineering you think in terms of
tolerances and my wife's a structural
engineer right? She always thinks in
terms of what are the tolerances? How
much how much extra stuff do I have to
do beyond what the math tells me because
I need it for tolerances because yeah, I
mean I mostly know what the properties
of wood or concrete or steel are, but
I've got to, you know, go for the worst
case. We need probably some of that kind
of thinking ourselves. What are the
tolerances of the non-determinism that
we have to deal with and realizing that
we can't skate too close to the edge
because otherwise we're going to have
some bridges collapsing. I I suspect
we're going to do that particularly on
the security side. We're going to have
some noticeable crashes. I I fear um
because people have got skated way too
close to the edge in terms of the
non-determinism of the tools they're
using.
>> Oh, for sure. But before we go into
where we could crash, what are some
either new workflows or new software
engineuring approaches that you've kind
of observed or or aware of that that
sound kind of exciting that we we can
now now do with LMS or at least we can
try to give them a goal that would have
been impossible with, you know, our old
deterministic toolkit,
>> right? One area is one one that has got
lots of attention already is the being
able to knock up a prototype in a matter
of days. That's just way more than you
could have done previously. So, this is
the vibe coding thing. Um, but it's it's
more than just that because it's also an
ability to try explorations. Um, people
can go, hey, I not really quite sure
what to do with this, but I can spend a
couple of days exploring the idea much
much more rapidly than I could have
before. And so for throwaway
explorations for disposable little tools
and things of that kind um and including
stuff by people who aren't don't think
of themselves as software developers. I
think there's a whole area and you know
we can with good reason be very
suspicious of taking that too far
because there's a danger there. But we
also realize that as long as you treat
that within its right bounds, that's a
very valuable area and I think we'll
that's that's really good on a
completely opposite end of scale. U one
area that's really interesting is
helping to understand existing legacy
systems. So my colleagues have have put
a good bit of work in this um year or
two ago. And basically the idea is you
take the code itself um do the the
essentially the the semantic analysis on
on it. populate a graph database
essentially with that kind of
information and then use that graph
database as kind of in a ragl like style
and you can begin to interrogate and say
well what happens to this piece of data
which bits of code touch this data as it
flows through the program incredibly
effective and in fact if I remember
correctly we put actually understanding
of legacy systems into the adopt ring
because we said yeah you if you're if
you're doing any work with legacy
systems you should be using LLMs in some
way to help you understand
>> so so in this ring in the thought force
radar the the fewest things are in the
adopt adopt says we strongly suggest
that you look at this at least you know
thought works themselves look at it
there's only four items and one of them
is yes uh to to to use genai to
understand legacy code which to me tells
that you have seen great success which
is it's refreshing to hear by the way I
did not hear this as much and I guess it
helps at thought works I'm sure you have
to work with a lot of
>> well I mean it came from the fact that
some of the folks who had done some
really interesting work on on legacy
code stuff um happened to bump into and
look at this and say, "Hey, let's try
this out." And they found it to be very
effective and it also has been an
ongoing interest for many of us at
Thoughtworks because we have to do it
all the time. And how do you effectively
work with the the modernization of
legacy systems because every big company
that you know is older than a few years
has got this problem. Y
>> and they have it in spades
>> and then especially just simple things
people leave right as as as simple as
that and having uh Gen AI that can help
you make some progress is it's already
better than making no progress.
>> Exactly. So those are two areas that are
clearly um right away I would say those
are there's great success for using LLMs
and then there's the areas that we're
still figuring out. I mean, I'm
certainly seeing some interest more in
more and more interesting stuff as
people try to figure out how to work
with an LLM on a one-to-one basis to
build decent quality software. We're
seeing some definite signs of how you
you got to work with very thin, rapid
slices, small slices. You've got to
treat every slice as a PR from a rather
dodgy collaborator who's very productive
in the lines of code sense of
productivity. Um, but you know, you
can't trust a thing that they're they're
doing. So, you've got to review
everything very carefully when you play
with the genie like that. The genie is
GK Kent's term for it. Or or Dusty the
uh sort of the anthropomorphic donkey,
which is how Bita
I love her take.
>> Yeah. But using it well, you can
actually definitely get some speed up in
your process. It's not the kind of speed
up that the the the advocates are
talking about, but it is non-trivial.
It's certainly worth learning how to to
make some use of this and it's folks
like Burgita or Kent or um Steve Jagg
those are the those are the folks I
think who are pushing this. We're still
I think learning how to do this.
>> Everyone is learning it. Absolutely.
>> And it's still the question and most of
the experience we're gaining is building
in a green field environment. So that
leaves big questions in terms of a the
brownfield environment. Well, we know
that that LLMs can help us understand
legacy code. Can they help us modify
legacy code in a safe way? [screaming]
It's still a question. I mean, I was
just chatting with with James Lewis
because he's in town as well this
morning and he was commenting about he
was playing with cursor and he's been
was just building something like this
and he said, "Oh, I I wanted to change
the name of a class um in a not too big
program and he sets it off to do that."
and comes back an hour and a half later
and has used you know 10% of his monthly
allocation of tokens and all he's doing
is changing the name of a class
>> and and we actually in IDs we actually
have functionality which which I I still
remember when was cutting edge this was
probably 20 years ago when Visual Studio
it wasn't even Visual Studio it was Jet
Brains who came out with an extension
called ReSharper which helped refactor
code and people paid serious money this
was like $200 per year or something to
get this plugin and now you could right
click and say rename class and it went
and it built that the graph behind the
scenes somehow it went and changed you
could rename variables and again this
was a a huge deal in fact uh in Xcode
Apple's developer uh plat uh ID for a
while when swift came out you couldn't
do these refactors and it was you know
people were like so it's interesting how
some things are easy we've solved it and
LMS are not very very efficient at not
very good at it
>> y
>> yes and then I mean he did that just to
see what it was going to be like right
cuz he knows you can just I mean we've
had this for a long technology for a
long time so it's kind of amusing I mean
but it's also to the point that when
working with an existing system and
modifying an existing system we that's
still really up in the air and then
another area that's really up in the air
both green field and brownfield is what
happens when you've got a team of people
because most software has been built by
teams and will continue to be built with
teams because even if and I don't think
it will um AI makes us order of
magnitude more productive
We still need a team of 10 people to
build what a team of 100 people needed
to build and we will always want this
stuff. There's no sign of demand
dropping for software. So we will always
want teams and then the question is of
course how do we best operate with AI in
the team environment and we're still
trying to figure that one out as well.
So there's lots of questions we got some
an some answers some beginnings of
answers and it's just a fascinating time
to watch it all.
>> You mentioned vibe coding. what what is
your understanding and take on vibe
coding?
>> Well, when I use the term vibe coding, I
used I try to go back to the original
term which is basically you don't look
at the output code at all. Maybe, you
know, take a glance at it out of
curiosity, but you you really don't care
and maybe you don't look don't know what
you're doing because you don't you've
got no knowledge of programming. It's
just spitting out stuff for you. So,
that's my how I define vibe coding. Um,
and my my take on it is kind of as I've
indicated, I think it it's good for
explorations. It's good for throwaways,
disposable stuff. Um, but you don't want
to be using it for anything that's going
to have any long-term capability because
it's I mean, again, just this is a a
silly anecdote, but I was working um my
colleague Unesh, he's just wrote
something that we published yesterday.
And uh as part of doing this, we we
create this little pseudo graph of
capability over time kind of thing,
which is, you know, one of those silly
little pseudo graphs that helps
illustrate a point. And he asked the uh
at LLM to create this. He described the
curves he wanted and produ came up with
and put it up there. And I and he he
committed it to our repo. And I was
looking at it and thinking, yeah, that's
a good good enough graph. I want to
tweak it a little bit. I want to, you
know, the labels are a bit far away from
the lines they're labeling, so I'd like
to bring them closer. So I open up the
SVG of what the LLB has produced and oh
I mean it was astonishingly how
complicated and convoluted it was for
something that I had written the
previous one myself and I knew it was
you know a dozen lines of SVG and SVG is
not exactly a compact language right
because it's XML but this thing was
gobsmackingly um weird and I mean that's
the thing when you vibe code stuff it's
going to produce god knows what and
often it really is and you cannot then
tweak it a little bit.
>> You have to basically throw it away and
hope that you can generate whatever it
is you're trying to tweak. And the other
thing of course that's the difference
and this is the the heart of the article
that Unmesh wrote um that we published
yesterday is when you're using vibe
coding in this kind of way, you're
actually removing a very important part
of of something which is the learning
loop. If you're not looking at the
output, you're not learning. And the
thing is that so much of what we do is
we come up with ideas, we try them out
on the computer with this constant back
and forth between what the computer does
with what we're thinking. We're
constantly going through that learning
loop program approach and unash's point,
which I think is absolutely true, is you
cannot shortcut that process. And what
LLM do, they just kind of skim over all
of that and you're not learning. And
when you're not learning, that means
that when you produce something, you
don't know how to tweak it and modify it
and evolve it and grow it. All you can
do is nuke it from orbit and start
again. The other thing I've done
occasionally with vibe coding is oh vibe
coding as a consulting company, so many
problems to fix
for sure. But you are right on the
learning the the the learning side both
on on vibe coding and AI. One one thing
that I'm noticing on on myself is it is
so easy to you know give a prompt you
get a bunch of output and you know you
should be reviewing a lot of this code
either yourself or or in a code review
but what I'm seeing on myself is I'm at
some point I start to get a bit tired
and I just let it let let it go and this
is also what I'm hearing when talking
with software engineers is the ones who
are working at companies which are
adopting these tools which is pretty
much every company it's there's a lot
more code going out there, a lot more
code to review, and [clears throat]
they're asking, "How can I be vigorous
at code reviews when there's just more
and more of them than before?" Have you
seen approaches that help people, both
less experienced people and also more
experienced engineers, keep learning
with these tools? Just approaches that
seem promising.
>> Not a huge amount. Um I do I am very
much paying attention to what Unmesh um
is doing with this because his approach
very much is that notion of let's try
and build a language to talk to the LLM
with work with the LLM to produce a
language to communicate to the LLM more
precisely and carefully what it is that
we're looking for. And I do feel that is
a promising and very much a more
promising line attack. make sure do we
create our own specialized language for
working with whatever problem that we're
working on and I think that actually
brings another um we're talking about
things we know LLM are useful for
another thing and this is again
something unme has highlighted is
understanding an unfamiliar environment
again I was chatting with James he was
working with um he's he's working on a
Mac with C which is not a language he's
terribly familiar with using this game
engine called God.
>> Godo. Yeah.
>> Yeah. Go.
>> And he doesn't know anything about this,
right? But with the LLM, he can learn a
bit about it because he can try things
out. And if you take it with that
exploring sense, and I mean, I I mean, I
can't remember. I've I've certainly got
to the point where I'm typing in to the
L. Oh, well, how do I do so and so in R
that I've I've done 20 times, but I
still can't remember how to do it. And
you and exploring and Umash makes a
point again setting up initial
environments. you know, give me a
starting project, a sk a sample starting
skeleton project so I can just get
moving. Um, and so that kind of
exploratory stuff and helping in an
unfamiliar environment and just learning
your way around an unfamiliar set of
APIs and and coding ideas and the like.
it can be quite handy for I
>> I wonder if this is not all that new in
the sense that I remember you know one
of the last kind of big productivity
boosts in the industry uh about 10 or 15
years ago was Stack Overflow appearing.
So before Stack Overflow when you
Googled for questions you bumped into
this site called experts to change and
there was the question and you had to
pay money to see the answer or you had
to pay money to get an expert to answer
but usually there was nothing behind it
even if you paid and most of us I was a
college student I just didn't pay right
>> so you just couldn't find the answer and
you were all frustrated but then Stack
Overflow came along and suddenly you had
code snippets that you could copy and of
course what a lot of young people or
like less experienced developers even
like myself did is you just take the
code, put it in there and see if it
works. As you got to more experienced
engineers or developers, you started to
tell the junior engineers like you need
to understand that first like or even if
it works, you need to understand why it
works. You need to you should read the
code. And I I feel we've been there was
a few years where where we were going
back and forth of people mindlessly
copying pasting uh snippets. There were
problems with uh I think there was a
question about email validation and a
top voted answer was not entirely
correct. And turns out that a good part
of software and developers just use that
one.
>> I feel we kind of been around this
already.
>> Yeah, it's a similar kind of thing, but
>> maybe at a smaller scale.
>> Yeah. But even more boosted and on
steroids and with the question of, you
know, how how are things going to
populate in the future because who's
going to be writing Stack Overflow
answers anymore?
>> Yeah. So, I I I wonder if what we're
getting to is like you need to care
about the craft. you you need to
understand what the LLM's output is and
it's there to help you and if you're not
doing it I mean like you should but but
if you're not you'll eventually be no
better than someone just prompting it
mindlessly.
>> Exactly. Yeah. I mean it I mean I have
no problem with taking something from
the LLM and stick putting it in to see
if it works but then once you've done
that understand why it works as you say
and also look at it and say is this
really structured the way I'd like it to
be don't be afraid to refactor it don't
be afraid to put it in and then of
course the testing combo anything you
put in that works you need to have a
test for and and if you constantly are
doing that back and forth with the
testing process Martin Fowler was just
talking about the importance of testing
when working with LMS and in general
when building quality software. Speaking
of the quality software, I need to
mention our season sponsor, Linear. I
recently sat on one of Linear's internal
weekly meetings called Quality
Wednesdays, and I was completely blown
away. This was a 30-minute meeting that
happens weekly. In this session, the
team went through 17 different quality
improvements in half an hour. 17. It's a
fast and super efficient meeting. Boom,
boom, boom. Every developer shows a
quality improvement or performance fix
that they made that week. And it can be
anything from massive backend
performance wins that save thousands of
dollars to the tiniest UI polish that
most people wouldn't even notice. For
example, one fix was fixing the height
of the composer window very slightly
changing when you entered the new line.
Another one was fixing this one pixel
misalignment. Can you imagine caring
that much about about the details? After
doing this every single week for years,
their entire engineering team has
developed this incredible eye for
quality. They catch these issues before
they even ship. Now, one of their
engineers told me that since they
trained this muscle over time, they
start noticing patterns while building
stuff. So, fewer of these paper cuts
ship in the first place. This is why
Linear feels so different from other
issue tracking and project management
tools. Thousands of tiny improvements do
add up and you feel the difference. When
you use Linear, you're experiencing the
results of literally hundreds of these
quality Wednesday sessions. Thomas,
their CTO, recently wrote a piece about
this week ritual, and I'll link it in
the show notes below. If your team cares
about craftsmanship and building
products that people actually love
using, check out Linear at
linear.app/pragmatic.
Because honestly, after seeing how they
work up close, I understand why so many
of the best engineering teams are
switching. And now, let's get back to
the importance of testing when working
with LLMs. I mean, one of the people I I
particularly uh focus on in this space
is Simon Willis and something he
stresses constantly is the importance of
tests, but testing is a huge deal to to
him and being able to make these things
work. And of course, you know, Bea is is
from Fort Works. We're very much an
extreme programming company. So, she's
steeped in in in testing as well. So,
she will say the same thing. You got to
really focus a lot on making sure that
the tests work together. And of course,
this is where the LLM struggle because
you tell them to do the tests and I'm
I'm only hearing problems [laughter]
or experiencing them myself like when
the LLM tells me, "Oh, and I ran all the
tests. Everything's fine. You got npm
test five failures." H yeah, I I I see
some improvements there by the way with
with clock code also like other agents.
But yes, it's the nondeterministic
angle. Sometimes they can lie to you,
which is weird, right? I'm I'm still not
>> They do lie to you all the time. In
fact, if if if they were truly a junior
developer, which is how sometimes people
like to say they should be
characterized, I would be having some
words with HR.
>> Yeah. Like I the other day I just had
this really weird experience, which is
the simplest thing. I have a
configuration file where I add just new
items, a new JSON, you know, blob, and I
I put the date of when I added it just
in the comments saying added on, you
know, October 2nd, added on November
1st. It's always a current date. And I
told the LM, can you please add this
configuration thing and add the current
date? And it added it and it added it
just copied the last date. And I said
that is not today's date. I said, oh,
I'm so sorry. You know, let me correct
that for you. And it put yesterday's
date. [laughter]
And and I I feel you need to get this
experience to see that it can gaslight
you for a simple thing of today's date
which uh you know you know you could
call a function whatnot but it's it's
down to which who knows which model I
was using how that model works whether
the company creating it is optimizing
for token usage or not etc etc etc so
like in the end even for the simplest
things you are as as a when you're a
professional working on important stuff
you should not trust Yeah, absolutely.
Never. Yeah, it's got to you've got to
don't trust, but do verify.
>> Verify. Yes. Uh, speaking with
developers at at Thought Works and and
the people you're you're chatting with,
what areas
that they are successfully using LM's
day-to-day though, like we we we did
mention just right now testing. We we
also mentioned things like prototyping,
but do you see some other things where
starting to become a bit of a routine?
Like if if I'm doing this thing, let me
reach for an LLM. it can probably help
me
>> that yeah I mean I'm I've mentioned many
of that right the prototyping the legacy
code understanding oh yes the fact that
um you can use it to explore um new
technology areas um potentially even new
domains as long as you you know you
trust it significantly less than you
would trust Wikipedia 10 years ago those
are the things that I'm hearing so far
>> yeah one interesting area that Burgetta
is exploring ing is spec development.
There's this idea of what well you know
LMS have have their own limitations but
what if we define pretty well what we
want it to do and give it this like
really good specification and you know
it can run with it it can run long it
had iterations and so on. What is your
take on this and do you have a bit of a
dja vu because we we've heard this once
right your your career started around
this thing called waterfall development.
So how how how are you seeing it similar
but also different this time? Well, the
the this the similar to waterfall is
where people try and say let's create a
large amount of spec and not pay much
attention to the code. And here I mean
whether you whether you talk again this
is what you mean by speciment is it so
much focusing on that or is it doing
small bits of spec do the tight loop I
mean to me the key thing is you want to
you want to avoid the the waterfall
problem of trying to build the whole
spec first. It's got to be do a do the
smallest amount of spec you can probably
you can possibly get to make some
forward progress. Cycle with that, build
it, get it tested, get it in production
if possible, and then cycle with these
thin slices. What role a spec may play
to drive in either case could be argued
to be a spec form of spec driven
development. But to me, what matters is
the tight the tight loops, the the thin
slices, that kind of thing.
>> And I know big definitely agrees on that
point. coming because she and you have
to be the human in the loop verifying
every time that's that's clearly crucial
where the spectrum and development then
ties in interesting again it comes back
to this thinking of building domain
languages and domain specific languages
and things of that kind can we craft
some kind of more rigorous spec to talk
about and that's you know I mentioned
what the wood mesh was doing there using
it to build an abstraction because
essentially what we're saying is that it
gives us the ability to build and
express abstractions in a slightly more
fluid form than we would be able to do
if we were building them purely within
the codebase itself. But we still don't
want them to deviate too much from the
codebase, right? We still want the
ubiquitous language notion that it's the
same language in our head as is in the
code and we're seeing the same names and
they're doing the same kinds of things.
The structure is clearly parallel, but
obviously the way we think is a bit more
flexible than the way the code can be.
and then you know can we blur that
boundary a bit by using the LLM as a
tool in that area. So that's the area
that I think is interesting in in that
direction. It
>> it's interesting as new because I I feel
we've never been able to use language as
close to representing code ever or or
like business logic and this is very
new.
>> Yeah. Although again people I mean there
are plenty of people who take that kind
of DSL like thinking into their
programming and I would to I know people
who would say yeah I would I would get
to the point where I could write certain
parts of the business logic in you know
a programming language like say Ruby and
show it to a domain expert and they
could understand it. They wouldn't feel
the ability to be able to write it
themselves but they could understand it
enough to point out whether what was
wrong or what was right in there. And
this is just programming code, but it it
that requires a certain degree of the
way you go about projecting the language
in order to be able to get that kind of
fluidity. And so it's but that kind of
thinking like trying to make an internal
DSL of a programming language or maybe
building your own external DSL
DSL meaning domain specific language
like if you're working with accountants,
you're going to have the terms that they
they use, the way they use it and so on.
>> Yeah. And what you're trying to do, of
course, is create that communication
route where pe where a non-programmer
can at least read what's going on and
understand it enough to to be able to
find what's wrong about it and and to
suggest changes which may not be
syntactically correct, but you can
easily fix them because you as a
programmer, you can see how to do that.
And that's the kind of goal and some
people have reached that goal in some
places. So the interesting thing is
whether whether LLMs will enable us to
make more progress in that direction and
see that happening more widely
>> and I guess this must be I'm just
assuming correct me if I'm wrong this
must be especially important in
enterprises these very large companies
where software developers are not the
majority of people let's say they're 10
or 20% of staff and there's going to be
accounting marketing special business
divisions who all want software written
for them and they know what they want
and historically there's been layers of
people translating this may that be the
project manager the technical pro etc.
So you're saying that there could be a
pretty interesting opportunity or or
just an experiment uh with LM that maybe
we can we can make this a bit easier for
both sides.
>> That is the world I'm most familiar with
right is that world. I mean um one I
mean I I my sense is you're very
familiar with the big tech company and
the startup worlds but this corporate
enterprise world of course is a whole
different kettle of fish because exactly
the reason that you said suddenly the
software developers are a small part of
the picture and there's very complex
business things going on that we've got
to somehow interface in and of course
also there's usually a much worse legacy
system problem as well. Um and and
there's going to be regulation, there's
going to be a history, there's going to
be exceptions because of all the
knowledge. I I think we can all just
think of banks of all the things cuz
there's there's perfect storm, right?
They have regulation that changes all
the time. They have incidents that they
want to avoid going future. They'll have
special VIP, I don't know, accounts or
whatever that they'll want to do. And of
course, they have all these business
units that all know their own rules and
and frameworks. And they've been around
since before technology. Some of some of
the banks have been around for, you
know, 100 plus years.
>> Yeah. And remember, the banks tend to be
more technological advanced than most
other corporations in software.
[laughter]
>> That's a good one.
>> You're looking at the at the good bit
when you're talking about banks.
[laughter]
>> You you have worked with some with some
of the less advanced folks as well.
>> I mean, yeah, retailers, airlines,
government agencies, things of that
kind. I mean, it was interesting. I was
chatting with some folks working in the
Federal Reserve in Boston and uh you
know they're
they have to be extremely cautious. They
are not allowed to touch LLMs at the
moment because
you know the the consequences of error
when you're dealing with you know a
major um government banking organization
are pretty damn serious. So you've got
to be really really careful about that
kind of stuff. and and yeah, their
constraints are very different and and
it it it brought to mind this there's a
an adage that says that to understand
how the software development
organization works, you have to look at
the core business of the organization
and see what they do. Interesting. I I
was at this agile conference for the
Federal Reserve in Boston and they took
me a tour of the Federal Reserve, but
where they handle the money. And so I
saw the places where they bring in the
the notes that have been brought in from
the banks and they kind of clean them
and count them and all the rest of it
and and send out the stuff again. And
you look at the degree of care and
control that they go through. own as you
could imagine. I mean, when you're
bringing in huge wges of cash and it has
to be sorted and counted and all the
rest of it, the controls have to be
really really strenuous. And you look at
that and you look at the care with which
they do all of this and you say, "Yep, I
can see why in the software development
side that mindset percolates because
they are used to the fact that they
really have to be c careful about every
little thing here." A lot of
corporations of course have that similar
notion. you're you're involved in an
airline, you are really concerned about
safety. You're really concerned about um
getting people to their death that
affects your whole way of thinking or
ought to and it does and I guess this is
a reason we are clearly seeing we always
see a divide in technology usage because
you have the startups which is a group
of people they just raised some funding
or they have no funding. They have
nothing to lose. They have they have
zero customers. They have everything to
gain. They they need to jump on the
latest bandwagon. They want to try out
the latest technologies. oftentimes
build on top of them or sell tools to
use the latest technology and they're
here to break the rules and you know
midway when there's when you start to
have a few customers in a business
you're starting to be a bit more careful
and of course you know 50 or 70 years
down the road when the founders have
gone and and now it's a large enterprise
you will just have different risk
tolerance right
>> exactly yeah
>> but what what what what I find
fascinating talking about this that I'm
unsure if there has been any new
technology that has been so rapidly
adopted everywhere. You mentioned that
let's say the Federal Reserve or some
other government organizations might say
let's not touch this yet but they are
also evaluating it sounds like it. So if
they're you know they're the one of the
most I guess behind in the technology
curve for very good reason they're
already aware of it or using it which
probably means that it's everywhere now.
Oh, it is. I mean, it is. I mean, we see
it all over the place, but again, with
that with with more caution in the
enterprise world where they're saying,
"Yeah, we we also see the dangers here."
>> And then you're you're seeing kind of
more nimble companies that you work with
and the more enterprise focused. What
would you say is the biggest difference
between their relationship of of AI uh
their approach? Is it is it this caution
or are there other characteristics that
the the the big more traditional less
more riskaverse companies approach it
differently? The the important thing to
remember with any of these big
enterprises is they are not monolithic.
So it'll be small portions of these
companies can be very adventurous and
other portions can be extremely not so.
And so what you'll see is small I mean
like you know when I when I started at
cheetah lightwe right and I was in this
little bit that was being very very
aggressively doing really wacky things,
right? I mean you'll find that in any
any big organization you'll find some
small bits doing some stuff. Um, and so
it's really the variation within an
enterprise often is bigger than the
variation between enterprises.
>> Good to keep that in mind. So speaking
about refactoring, LM are very good at
refactoring and and you you've written
the book back in 1999 called
Refactoring. This is now the second
edition which 20 years later it's it's
been refreshed. And it's it's actually a
really detailed book going through
different code smells uh that could show
that where the code is, techniques of of
refactoring it. On the first page
already, it has I really like this. It
has a list of refactorings on I don't
know how the publisher printed this
because it's so so unusual, but it's
it's it's right here on the table of
contents. Why did you decide to write
this book back in 1999? Can you bring us
back on what the envir environment was
like and what was the impact of the
first edition of this book? Okay. So, I
first came across refactoring at
Chrysler. Yeah. When I was working with
Kemp Beck, right early on in the
project. Um, we we I remember
in my hotel room, the courtyard or
whatever in Detroit, him showing me how
he would refactor some small talk code.
And what I mean, I was always someone
who liked going back to my something I'd
already written and make it more
understandable. I've always cared a lot
about something being comprehensible.
That's true in my pros writing and in my
software writing. And so that I knew,
but what he was doing was taking these
tiny little steps and and I was just
astonished at how small each step was,
but how because they were small, they
didn't go wrong and they would compose
beautifully and you could do a huge
amount with this sequence of little
steps. And that really blew blew my mind
away. I thought, "Wow, this is a big big
deal." But Kent was at the time his
energy was to write the first extreme
programming book, the white book. He
didn't have the energy to write a
refactoring book. So I thought, well,
I'm going to do it then. [laughter]
And I started by, you know, whenever I
was refactoring something, I would write
careful notes. And partly to because I
needed it for myself. How do I extract a
a extract a method so as I don't screw
it up? And so I would write careful
those turned it the mechanics in the
refactoring book would be that step. And
then I' I'd make an example for each
one. And that was the first edition in a
book. And that and I did it in Java, not
in small talk because small talk was
dying sadly. And Java was the language
of the future, the only programming
language we'd ever need in the future in
the in the late 90s. And so that's what
led to the um to the first book. And um
the impact well I mean and also
refactoring. I should also stress it
wasn't invented by Kent. I mean it was
very much um developed by um Ralph
Johnson's crew at the University of
Illinois the Bona Champagne. They built
the first refactoring browser in Small
Talk which is the first tool that did
the automatic refactoring. that we talk
about now. That was the original the
refactoring browser built by um um I'm
blanking on John Brandt and Don Roberts
>> um did that and um then when the book
came out that got more interest there
was already some interest from the IBM
visual age folks because they came out
of Small Talk. the original versions of
Visual Age were in fact built in Small
Talk. Um, and so they were already aware
of what was going on to some degree, but
it was the Jet Brains folks that really
caught the imagination because they put
it into the early versions of Intelligj
idea and really ran with it. Then you
ran into it with ReSharper, of course.
Um, and um, they really made the
automated refactorings become something
that people could rely on, but it's
still good to know how to do them
yourself because often you're in a
language where you haven't got those
refactorings available to you. So it's
nice to be able to pull out that stuff
and some of them aren't obviously in
there and yeah so the impact it's had is
refactoring became a word and of course
like all of these words got horribly
misused and people use refactoring to
mean any kind of change to a program
which of course it isn't because
refactoring is very strictly these very
small semantics pres behavior preserving
changes that you make tiny tiny steps I
always like to say each step is so small
that it's not worth doing but you string
them together and you can really do
amazing things I I I think we've all had
that story. At least I had a story where
one of my colleagues or you know it
could have been me but often times one
of my colleagues would say like oh stand
up saying like oh I'm I'm just going to
do a refactoring and then next day oh
I'm still doing the refactoring next day
oh I'm still doing the refactoring and
[laughter]
you know that that that missed a part of
the small changes for sure. What made
you do a second edition for the book 20
years later in 2019 which was fairly
recent? Well, it was a sense of um
wanting to refresh
um some of the things that were in it.
Some there were some new things that I
had. I was also concerned that I mean
when you've got a book that's written in
late 1990s Java, it it shows its age a
bit.
>> Yes. [laughter]
>> And although the core ideas I felt were
sound and people could still use it, I
felt you coming giving it a more doing
it in a more modern environment. And
then the question was which you know
would I stay with Java or did I switch
to another language and in in the end I
decided to switch to JavaScript. I felt
it would reach a broader audience that
way and also allow a less
object-oriented centered way of
describing things. So instead of extract
method it's extract function because of
course it's the same process for
functions and also some things that you
you don't wouldn't necessarily think of
doing in an object-oriented language.
But um it was mainly just to to get that
refresh um to redo the examples to
really hopefully give it another 20
years of life because it's got to keep
me going until I croak, you know.
[laughter]
>> Yeah. So you published this book 25
years ago or 26 years ago in the
industry based on your interactions with
developers. How has the perception of
refactoring changed? because in the book
you you specifically wrote that you you
see refactoring as a key element in the
software development life cycle and
you've also talked about how when you
refactor uh the overall cost of changing
code over time can be a lot cheaper. Was
there a time where there was a lot more
uptake on this or is there still or or
do you feel it's kind of like a little
bit like being
maybe refracting went a little bit out
of style as some of those really
innovative tools at the time like Jet
Brains and others. They're maybe not as
as uh kind of referenced even though
they're everywhere.
>> It's hard to say for me. Um because I
mean again most of the interaction I
have is with folks at Fort Works. they
tend to be more clued up with this kind
of stuff than the average developer.
Certainly, I read plenty of things on
the internet that make me just shake my
head at
>> how even refactoring is being described,
let alone the lack of doing it in the
and certainly in the kind of structured
way, controlled way that that I like to
do it because I like doing it quickly
and effectively. And you know, it's one
of those things where the disciplined
approach actually is faster, even though
it may seem strange to describe it that
way. But I mean, I I have to it's at
least been part of our language now.
People talk about doing it. It's in
these tools and they do it very
effectively. The refactorings that they
do, I mean, it's wonderful to work in in
an environment where you can actually
automatically do so many of these
things. And so I feel we've definitely
made some progress. Maybe not as much as
I'd have hoped for, but you know, that's
often the way with these things.
>> Looking ahead with AI tools, they they
generate a lot more code a lot faster.
So, we're just going to have a lot more
code. We already have a lot more code.
>> How do you think the value of of
refactoring thinking about the your
intended meaning of of those small
ongoing changes is going to be
important? And are you already seeing
some of this being important?
>> I wouldn't say I'm already seeing it.
Um,
but I I can certainly expect it to be
increasingly important. Um, because
again, if you're going to produce a lot
of code of questionable quality,
but it works, then refactoring is a way
to get it to into a better state while
keeping it working. Um, these tools at
the moment can't definitely cannot
refactor on their own. Although we've
combined with other things. Adam
Tornhill does some interesting stuff
with combining LLMs with other tools to
be able to get a much more effective
route and I think that kind of approach
combining could be a good way to do it.
Um but definitely the refactoring
mindset and thinking how do I make
changes by basically boiling them down
to really small steps that compose
easily. That's really the trick of it.
The the the smallalness and the
composability. combine those two and you
can make a lot of progress.
>> It's interesting because because right
now if you want to refactor you need to
have your IDE open for sure. And I mean
the fast way is just just using the
built-in tools or you moving things
around. What what I found as well is
describing it when I have a command line
open with like cloth code or something
similar. It's it's tough or I I spend
more time explaining it than me doing
that that small change. And I do wonder
if uh if we will see more integrations
in this end as well so that LMS can
actually do it or some of them might do
it automatically cuz as you say it it
doesn't work out of the box but I think
for any quality software that I mean we
we all learn the hard way that if you
just kind of leave it there and don't go
back and don't change it up when your
when your functions get just the simple
things right when your function gets too
long when your class gets too long you
break it up otherwise you're not going
to understand it later. Yeah, it'll be
interesting as well to see if it
provides a way for us to control the
tool. I mean, one of the things that
interests me is where people are using
LLMs to describe queries against um
relational databases that turn into SQL.
You don't know how to get the SQL right,
but if you type the thing at the LLM, it
will give you back the SQL and you can
then look at it and say, "Oh, this is
right or not right." And tweak it and it
gets you started, right? And so
similarly with refactoring, it may allow
you to get started and say, "Oh, these
are the kinds of changes I'm looking at
and be able to make some uh progress in
that. I mean, particularly where you're
talking about these automated changes
across log large code bases." There was
an example of this was it a year ago or
so when one of these big companies
talked about this massive change and
made to change APIs and and clean up the
code and they mentioned it as an LM
thing, but it wasn't an LLM. It was a it
was that different tool and I'm
completely blanking on what the names of
all of these things were. Oh, I'd have a
60-y old brain and I can't be able to
remember anything anymore. It'll come to
me at some point. But actually, it was
it was a combination of, you know, maybe
10% LLM and 90% this other tool. Um, but
that was it again provided that extra
leverage that allowed them to to make
the progress. I think those kinds of
things are really quite interesting
using the LLM as a starting point to
drive a deterministic tool and then
you're able to see what the
deterministic tool is doing. That's I
think where there's some interesting
interplay. Speaking about going on from
refactoring to software architecture,
you were very busy writing books around
the early 2000. You wrote the book
patterns of enterprise application
architecture in 2002 and this was a
collection of more than 40 patterns uh
things like lazy load identity map
template view and many others and I
remember around this time there was your
book about enterprise uh architecture
patterns there was also the gang of four
book there was a lot of talk when I was
interviewing around that time on
interviews they were asking me questions
about how to do a factory pattern and
singleton and and all of these things
software architecture was talked about
my sense was in a lot of places or a lot
more. Then something happened something
starting from the 2010s I I no longer
hear most technologists talk about
patterns or architecture patterns. How
have you observed this period of when
the book came out? what was the impact
of it and why why was it important to to
talk about it and and put it into the
industry and how have you seen this
change of where we stopped talking more
on on patterns and why do you think it
happened?
>> Yeah, that I mean I've always found it a
I mean what you're doing with patents is
you're trying to create a vocabulary to
talk more effectively about this kind of
these kind of situations. I mean it's
just like in you know in the medical
world they come up with this jargon in
Greek and Latin to more precisely talk
about things that are quite involved and
complex. Yes.
>> And with patents what we're trying to do
is trying to evolve that same kind of
language except we're not doing it in
Greek and Latin. I certainly feel that
they they do help communication flow
more effectively. You know once people
are familiar with that terminology. I
mean you don't look at them as some kind
of you know how many of them can you
cram into the system you're building.
It's more a sense of how can you use it
to describe your alternatives and the
options that you have and also think
about more about when to apply things or
not apply them. I mean patterns are only
useful in certain contexts. So you you
you very much got to understand the
context of when to use them. And yeah,
it's it's kind of a shame that some of
the the wind has gone out of the sails
of that perhaps because people were
overusing them in terms of trying to use
them as a sort of a like pinning medals
on a chest. But it can still be very I
mean I I mean I worked very recently
with Unmesh on his book on dist patterns
in distributed systems and I felt that
was a very good way of coming up with
again a language to describe how we
think about the core elements and better
gain an understanding of how distributed
systems work which is an important
aspect of how to deal with life these
days because we're all building these
kinds of distributed systems. So I still
feel that they can be a very good way of
expressing that. I it's hard for me to
to get a sense of of why they can be
they kind of became less fashionable.
Maybe they'll become more fashionable
again. Who knows? But I I I'm always
looking for ways to try to spread
knowledge around and make things more
understandable. And I do feel that this
idea of trying to identify these create
these nouns that we can talk about
things more precisely is a good way of
part of doing that. I I wonder if
because I I've I' I've seen I've worked
at places where we we used these things
and then places where we just like threw
them out the window, no one was using
it. And a difference was honestly just
kind of the age and the attitude of the
company cuz there was a sense at some
point that the patterns there were for
legacy companies. So startups would just
start from a blank sheet of paper, you
know, a whiteboard, you know, UML was a
perfect example where UML had pretty
strict rules on how to do the arrows.
And if you do that, right, you could
even generate code and do all these
things. And at startups, the software
architecture still exists, but you just
put it on the whiteboard and you just
drew a box or a circle and you didn't
care about the arrows. And it was just
uh I guess we we're not going to lock
ourselves into existing ways of doing
things. And it's a bit of an education
as well like you do need to onboard to
these things. You all need to have a
shared understanding and maybe it's just
a combination of of of these two things.
And I guess it's a generational thing as
well. you know, every every few years a
new generation comes out and the same
way where at some point uh I I was one
of the first people in college where it
was super cool to use Facebook and it
was just all scholar students and then
when my parents went on there it was
super uncool to use Facebook or my
grandparents came on there like I I kind
of like stopped using it when they
started using it. So I I wonder if there
there's like like these waves going back
and forth because inside of these
startups there is a language uh like you
know lingo uh about how they talk about
the architecture and it starts to form
over time. You start to see it whether
it's longer tenure people you get more
and more of the jargon except it's not
in a book that anyone can read but you
have to go in there or go to similar
company where they take the jargon with
them.
>> Exactly. and and people will create
these jarens. Um, and it's an inevitable
part of communication. You need to you
need to can't explain everything from
first principles requiring five
paragraphs every single time. If you're
using the term all the time, you just
make a word out of it. And then
everybody creates their own words. And
all you're doing when you're coming up
with a book like the patterns of
distributed systems is you're trying to
say, "Okay, here's a set of words with a
lot of definition and explanation of
them. and let's hope we can kind of
converge on that so that we can
communicate a bit more widely. Um, but
it's also quite natural for people to
say, you know, within our little
environment, we create our own little
jargon. So, we don't take notice of that
and and then you get the the mismatches
that occur as you only you only really
notice that as you cross these different
environments.
>> Grady BHC had a interesting take on this
by the way. So I asked him about the
same thing because he's he's been so
much into software he still is into
software architecture and he's
progressed the field a lot and he said
that what he thinks happened is that
starting in like 20 cuz the patterns
died out from mainstream industry I'll
say again it's it's still in some
pockets but around the 2010s one
interesting thing that happened around
that time is cloud the cloud started to
get bigger AWS Google cloud and a lot of
companies started to build similar
things. They started to build either
initially on on premise backend services
where you had most of your business
logic later it moved to the cloud and
Grady said that the these hyperscalers
the cloud providers AWS for example they
they built all these services that are
really well architected so you can kind
of use one after the other and it's it's
well done you don't need to worry too
much about your data storage you just
use let's say Dynamob or or a managed
Postgress service so suddenly
architecture is not all that important
because these blocks take it care of
you. You have these building blocks and
now you're talking about using this
database on top of this system. His
observation was maybe architecture was
solved with a well architectured
building block that you could use and
you didn't have to reinvent the wheel.
>> Yeah. or but I suspect there's still
patterns of using these things and
that's something I haven't delved into
because I just haven't had the the
opportunity to
>> focus on that or more precisely I
haven't had enough of my colleagues uh
banging my banging me on the door with
with uh draft articles to be able to
publish on it.
>> Well, one pattern that I do see is every
every company you know names their
system. Some have wacky names, some have
logical names. But when you talk about
architecture, you typically talk about
like you know like like at at at Uber we
had the the bank emoji service which
called which was be migrated to Gulfream
which was you know these all sound like
doesn't make too much sense if if if
you're from the outside. Sometimes they
have like proper names they try with
that the payment profile service but
then there's a new version and that's
now the payment pro that's PP PP2
anyway. But inside any every company
like you will talk about these specific
names and you will talk about how they
work, how small they are, how large they
are and that's kind of I feel that's
oftentimes the lingo.
>> Yeah, it is. It becomes that's again
again part of the lingo of larger
organizations and again you take a
company that's been around for much
longer than Uber and of course that
lingo is baked into the organization.
can take you several years just to
figure out what the hell's going on
because it just takes you that long to
learn all of these systems and how they
interconnect.
>> Well, one of the fascinating
conversation that I had many years ago
was someone very high up in American
Express and we were talking about how uh
he was responsible for rearchitecting
their system to the next generation. And
uh he was just getting ideas on how to
socialize ideas and and get things out.
And I asked how long have you been
working on this? It has been 3 years.
And I was like, "Okay, so we're we're
like where are you are you like done?"
He's like, "No, no, this is just a
planning like like [laughter] we're
we're close to finishing the planning."
And to me, it didn't compute because
like in 3 years of planning. But again,
once you I started to understand the the
the scale of the business, how much
money, how many legacy systems they
have, half of half of what he did was
talk with business stakeholders to
convince them or get buy in. Um I guess
this event eventually happens with like
most companies except when you're at the
younger company or digital first or tech
first companies meaning founded in 2010
or later. You still don't see this but
it it might come in 10 years.
>> Oh yeah it it certainly will. Oh, it's
interesting. It there's I remember
chatting I was chatting with somebody
who had joined a bank uh an established
bank and they had joined from a startup
and one of their jobs was to modernize
the way the bank stuff was going and the
comment was now we've been here 3 years
now I think I can understand the problem
I've got some idea of what what I can do
what can be done but it just takes you
that long to just really understand the
land where you are in this new landscape
because it's it's big and it's been
around a long time and it's complicated
and it's not logical because it's built
by humans, not by computers. And it's
not a logical system. And there's all
sorts of history in there because all
sorts of things happen because so and so
met so and so and had an arrow with so
and so. And all of these things kind of
percolate over time and this vendor came
in here and was popular over here and
then the person who liked this vendor
got moved to a different part of the
organization. and somebody else came in
who wanted a different vendor. And all
of this stuff builds up over time to a
complicated mess. And any big company is
going to have that kind of complicated
mess cuz it's very hard to not get that
that situation. And yeah, I mean, the
Uber's lucky that it's only, you know,
relatively young company, but it will
be, you know, assuming it survives in 50
years time, it'll be like American
Expresses, right?
>> Yep. you can already see the the changes
the the the layers of processes and so
on which is kind of nec like it's
necessary so as you grow speaking of uh
change and iteration uh on and agile so
you were part of the 17 people who
created the agile manifesto and I
previously asked Ken Beck about this who
was another person involved can you tell
me from your perspective what was the
story there on on how you all came
together how this pretty chaotic I I
think day played out And what was the
reception as as you recall back then?
This was 2001,
>> right? So I mean the the origin of it I
always feel was actually a meeting we
had that Kent ran about a year before we
did the agile manifesto and it was a
gathering of extreme programming folks
who were working with extreme
programming and we had it at this uh
place near where Kent was living at the
time in middle of nowhere Oregon and uh
he also invited some people who weren't
directly part of the extreme programming
group folks like Jim Highmith um along
as well and part of The discussion we
had was should extreme programming be
the relatively narrow thing that Kent
was describing in the white book or
should it be something more broad that
had many of the similar kind of
principles in mind and Kent decided he
wanted something more concrete and
narrow and then the question is well
what do we do with this broader thing
and how it overlaps with things like
what the scrum people were doing and all
that kind of stuff that's what led to
the idea of getting together people from
these different groups and we had the
argument about whether we were going to
hold it in Utah because Alistister
wanted it in Utah and then Dave Thomas
wanted to have it in Anguila in the
Caribbean and for whatever reason we
ended up in Utah um and the skiing
and so we and we gathered together the
people that we did and of course it was
a case of who actually came along and
because obviously lots of people were
invited who didn't come um and I wasn't
terribly involved with that although Bob
Martin does insist that I was involved
got involved in he mentioned some lunch
in Chicago which is very likely because
I was going to Chicago all the time for
works at the time. So, I probably did,
but I don't remember. Um, and of the
meeting itself, I actually don't
remember very much of it, which is a
shame. I I I, you know, curse myself for
not writing a detailed journal of of
those few days. Um, I'd love to know,
you know, how did we come up with that
this over that um structure for the
values, for instance, which I think was
really wonderful, but I have no idea how
it got how that got put together. So,
unfortunately, I get very vague about
the actual doing of it. I do remember
have a have a fairly clear memory
although we should be wary about that.
I'll come to that perhaps later about
why of uh Bob Martin being the one who
was really insistent on I want to make a
manifesto and me thinking oh well yeah
we can do that it'll the manifesto
itself will be a complete useless and
ignored of course but the exercise of
writing it will be interesting it
>> um and that was my reaction to it and
matter how I felt about the manifesto I
felt ah nobody will take any notice of
this oh wow
>> but um hey we're having fun writing it
and we're going we're understanding each
other etc. And that will be the value,
right? We'll understand each other
better.
>> And then of course the fact that it made
a bit of an impact was kind of a shock.
And then of course it it gets misused by
by most of the time because there's
there's that lovely quote from
Alistister Cobin that your brilliant
idea will either be ignored or
misinterpreted and you don't get to
choose which of the two it is.
>> Well, it also helps that the manifest to
us four different lines and so people
just pick and choose which one they want
to point.
>> 12 principles.
>> Oh, and the 12 principles which Yes. and
and the fact that it says and says at
the beginning we are uncovering
um and that this is a continuous process
and what the manifesto is just this is
what we've got how how we got so far um
so it's a snapshot of a point in time of
where we were in 20201 yeah all sorts of
subtleties to to the to the manifesto
but um it I think it had an impact in
the sense that I my feelings were was a
certain way that we wanted to write
software at Fort Works for our clients
in 2000 000 and it was a real struggle
because they didn't want to work the way
we wanted to. We've said we want to put
all this effort into writing tests and
we was we want to have a build pro an
automated build process and we want to
do these kinds of things. We want to be
able to progress in small increments.
all of these kinds of things which were
anathema. You know, no, we got to we've
got to have a big plan over five years
and we'll spend two years doing a design
and we'll produce a design and then
it'll get implemented over the next year
or so and then we'll start testing,
right? I mean, that was the the
mentality of how things ought to be
done.
>> Yeah. That was just the common the
commonly understood wisdom, right?
>> Yeah. And our notion of no, we we'd like
to do that entire process for a subset
of requirements in one month, please.
Only a month. And of course we really
wanted to do it in a week but you know
baby steps. And so to me the great thing
about agile is that we can actually go
into organizations and operate it much
closer to the way that we'd like to be
able to do. Our clients will let us work
the way we want to to much greater
extent than we would were able to do
back in 2000. And so that is the
success. I just wanted the world to be
safe for those people that wanted to
work that way to be able to work that
way. Yeah. there's all sorts of other
bad things that have happened as a
result of all of this. But um on the
whole I think we are a bit better off
>> and and do you see like the the way you
look especially when you look at the
enterprise clients that that you have a
lot more visibility to you see the
definite change from like 25 years ago
to like the the concepts of agile are
way more accepted like working with the
customer having a lot more incremental
delivery forgetting about these like
very long pieces of work like this is
it's just common everywhere right can we
say that or at least
>> I would We've made significant progress,
but compared to how we'd like it to be
and where our vision is, it is still a
pale shadow of what we want of what we
wanted. I mean, and I suspect most of
the 17 that are still with us would
agree with that. We still feel we can go
much much better than we c than we've
been, but we have actually made material
progress. And the thing is that we we
were always in that situation where you
know we're kind of nudging our our way
forwards much at a much slower rate than
we'd like to be. Yeah. Now of course AI
is is coming and it it is now every it
is everywhere and it will be everywhere
and one things with with AI so the core
idea behind agile was that you make
incremental improvements and the shorter
the better. Now with and you could then
build software that incrementally start
to improve. But today with AI,
especially with AI, there's going to be
more software everywhere. There already
is. And there's a sense that customers
don't necessarily want to wait for
incremental improvements. They they want
to see quality upfront. Do you think
that agile will work just as well with
with with AI with even shorter
increments or do you think we might
start to think about like some different
way to work with with AI putting on the
quality lens up front as well and
getting back to a little bit of you know
the spec driven development like getting
a version of the software that is just
great to start with. I don't know how
the AI thing is going to play out
because we're still in the early days. I
still feel that building things in terms
of small slices with the human sort of
humans reviewing it is still the way to
bet. What AI hopefully will allow us to
do is to be able to do those slices
faster um and maybe do a bit more in
each slice, but we need to it's I'd
rather get smaller, more frequent slices
than more stuff in each slice. improving
the frequency is usually what we I think
we need to do and just cycled out those
steps more rapidly. That's where I felt
we've had our biggest gains is is
through that more rapid cycle rather
than trying to do more stuff in the same
cycle as it were. And I I still get a
sense of that when talking to people
still saying, you know, can you look at
all of the things that you do in
software development and and increase
the frequency? Do half as much but in
half the time and and and speed up that
cycle. Look for ways to speed that
through. And also, you know, just look
at where what you're doing. Look for the
cues in your flow and figure out how to
cut those cues down. If you were able to
get some ideas from idea to running code
in two weeks, how do you get it down to
a week? Just try to constantly improve
that cycle time. And I still feel that
that's our best form of leverage at the
moment is improving cycle time.
>> Yeah. And I I've been talking with some
of the leading AI labs on how they use
it because of course they're going to be
on the bleeding edge. They will use
this. They're also in their own interest
to use their own tools. at Entrophic uh
the cloud the cloud code team one of the
creators of clot code Boris he shared
how he did 20 prototypes of of a feature
of how the progress bar when when you do
a task how it lists out different steps
and how it shows you where it's at and
he built 20 different prototypes that he
all tried out and and got feedback on
and decided which one to go in two days
and he and and he showed me so actually
he has he had videos he just recorded
these as he went the exact prompt that
he used the output and these were
interactive proto protypes. So they were
not just, you know, like on the paper,
but they were inside.
>> And to me, this was like, wow. Like if
if you would have told me I built 20
prototypes and you asked me how long it
took it, I would have said two weeks,
maybe a week if you if they were small
like paper prototypes. But as you can
still speed it up and it is still
manageable. Some of them he threw it
away. Some of them he show shared with
small group, bigger group. So I I I feel
I feel you're right on how we have not
reached the limit of of how quickly can
we look at things.
>> Yeah, it comes back to feedback loops. I
mean so much of it is trying how do we
introduce feedback loops into the
process? I mean how do we tighten those
feedback loops so we get the feedback
faster so that we're able to learn
because in the end again it it comes
back to you know we have to be learning
about what it is we're trying to do.
Speaking about learning uh and keeping
up to date uh how do you learn about AI?
How do you keep up to date with with
what's happening? What approaches work
for you? And what are approaches you see
your colleagues uh follow who are also
staying up with you know what's going
on? Well, the main way I learn these
days is by working with people who are
writing articles that um are going on
onto my site because my primary effort
these days is getting good articles onto
my site and and my view is that I'm not
the best person to write this stuff
because I'm not doing the day-to-day
production work. Haven't been doing for
a long time. The only production code I
write is ironically the code that runs
the website. I still write code. I still
generate stack traces but it's only
within this very very esoteric little
area. Um so as a result I it's better
for me to work with people who actually
are doing this kind of work and help
them get their ideas and what their
lessons and express them to the as many
people as possible. So I'm learning
through the process of working with
people to write their ideas down which
is a very interesting way of learning
because of course you're you're very
deeply involved in in the editing
process for a lot of that material and
that was that's my primary form. I do do
some experimentation when I get the
chance not as much as I'd like but I do
see that as a second priority to working
with people. So you know it's necessity
only in the in the off time that I get
to do that. Um and of course reading
from where I feel are some of the better
sources. I mean fortunately one of those
better sources is Bita who has been um
writing with me. So that's good. Um
Simon
>> he's excellent. Yeah.
>> Spittita stuff is superb. Um Simon
Willis I keep an eye on what he's doing
all the time. Um I wish I had his energy
work rate for getting stuff out.
Actually I wish I had your energy you
the man of stuff you get out these days.
And so I look for sources like that. I'm
always interested in what folks like
Kent are up up to because let's face it,
so much of my career has been leeching
off Kent's ideas and um there's no
reason to stop doing that if it's still
working, right? Um and so those are the
kinds of sources I mean then sometimes
some books that come out that come
through and and work through those. So a
lot of it is in that kind of direction.
I might even watch a video occasionally
although I really hate watching videos.
So yeah. So sounds like find the sources
of the people you trust, the sources you
trust. Again, your your blog I can very
much recommend it because you have
several people writing on it. Uh so you
actually have a pretty good frequency of
in-depth articles about interesting like
I I I rarely see topics that have been
discussed in depth and so I I enjoy
checking checking out because of because
of it. I mean one of the questions that
I've been I've been pondering on is when
asked of so how do you identify what a
good source is of information and this
is more general this is due to to our
profession but of course due to to the
world generally as we seem to be in an
epistemological crisis of trying to
understand what's going on in the world
and and at some point I'm going to sit
down and write this down and I'll get a
more coherent um answer from it but part
of what I'm always looking for is um a
lack of certainty is I think a good
thing when people tell me oh I know the
answer to this I'm usually a good bit
more suspicious and I'm much more
conscious of when people say this is
what I understand at the moment but it's
fairly unclear I I remember one of my
favorite early books when I was writing
on the the um software architecture
um I was des I remember desperately
looking for something in the Microsoft
world as opposed to something in the
Java world there was a lot being written
written in Java world. This is back
around the late 90s. Lots of stuff was
being written in Java land, not much in
Microsoft land. And when I discovered
this Swedish guy, Jimmy Nielson. And his
book was full of stuff that says, well,
this is how I'm feeling about this is
the way to approach this stuff. He was
very tentative all the time, very much
clear of this was how he was currently
feeling, but he understood that things
might change. I've since got to know
Jimmy really well and he's a fantastic
guy. But what impressed me so much and
what influenced me so much is I felt
very much the degree to which oh this is
somebody I can trust because they're not
trying to give me this false sense of
certainty and confidence and I think
that's important also someone who's keen
to explore nuances and saying well this
works in these circumstances not if
somebody tells me oh you should always
use microservices or somebody says you
should never use microservices I mean
those both of those arguments can
completely discounted. It's when you
say, "Ah, these are the factors that you
should be considering about whether to
go in this direction or that direction."
Whenever someone is stepping back and
saying, "Ah, it's it's a trade-off.
There's various things involved. Here's
the factors you should go." And it's not
going to be a simple answer. You've got
to dig into the nuances. Then again,
that increases my confidence because
again, I'm feeling this is someone who's
thinking these things through and not
just coming on a on a sort of simple
railroad and and going down it. And I
guess with these sources, you can also
trust that everything we do in software
engineering, it's going to be
trade-offs, right? The the most common
answer of of like how long will it take
is it depends. It depends on on are we
doing a prototype, it depends on on do I
know the technology, etc. So if you if
you're reading sources or if you're
accessing sources where they tell you,
okay, in my situation, you actually
learn about their situation and you can
figure out like, okay, in this specific
case for them, this worked or it didn't
work and later you can probably apply it
a bit better because again, it's it's
very different if you're going to be
working as a software engineer inside a
highly regulated retailer that's 70
years old versus you've just started a
brand new startup where go and knock
yourself out, zero customers.
a huge difference. Yeah. And then that's
I mean and again you see it I mean we
see it with we frankly we see it with
clients a lot of clients say give us the
answer give us the the the cookbook
straightforward answer that I just need
to apply. Yeah. If you're looking for
that kind of cookbook answer you're
going to get in trouble because anybody
who will tell you there's a cookbook
answer. They either don't understand it
or they're deliberately covering it up
for you because there's always tons of
nuance involved. We we we keep going
back to this like now more than 50 year
old art the no silver bullets right one
question uh I got from online I asked
what people would like to ask from you
is what would your advice be today for
junior software engineers who are
starting out there's all this AI stuff
going on we know with with learning I
think you also mentioned or it might
have been Umesh who mentioned with
junior engineers it it it could be a bit
iffy of if you're relying too much on AI
will that hinder your learning because
learning is important. If one of these
engineers asked you like, "Hey, I'm a
junior engineer. I'd like to eventually
become a more experienced engineer, what
tactics would you advise me, especially
with AI tools? Should I rely on them?
Should I not? Is is there something that
might work better than other things?"
>> Well, I mean, certainly we have to be
using AI tools and exploring their use.
The hard part with if you're more junior
is you don't have this sense of is to
what extent is the output I'm getting
good and in many ways the answer is what
it's always been find some good senior
engineers who will mentor you because
that's the best way that you're going to
learn this stuff and a a good
experienced mentor is worth their weight
in gold and in fact many ways it's worth
prioritizing that above many other
things that you when it comes to your
career is is getting that met. I mean,
again, me finding Jim Odell early on in
my career was enormously valuable. The
best thing that could have possibly
happened to me was just blind luck. Um,
but seek out somebody like that who can
be your mentor. I mean, although we're
peers in some ways, I often see think of
Kemp Beck as a mentor. Um, because you
know, we may be the same age or
whatever, but his thinking is always
leaping forwards. And so, watching what
he's doing has been very val. So again,
find somebody like that. The AI can be
handy, but always remember it's gullible
and it's likely to lie to you. So be
probing on asking it. Okay, why do you
giving me this advice? What are your
sources?
What what's leading you to say this? I
mean I I remember this this is generally
a good thing is whenever people are pro
giving you something is to say what is
leading you to say that? What is the
background? what is the context you're
coming from? What are the things that
are leading you to this point of view?
And by probing that, you can get a
better understanding of where where
they're coming from. And you I think you
have to do the same thing with the AI
because in the end the AI is is it's
it's just regurgitating something it saw
on the internet. So the question is did
it see good stuff on the internet or did
it see most of the crap that's on the
internet, right? And but if you can find
your way to the good stuff, then that
can be much more useful.
>> And looking at all this change that
that's happening right now with AI LMS,
how do you feel about the tech industry
in in general?
>> I mean, in in a broad sense, I'm
positive because I' I still feel there's
a hu so many huge things that can be
done with technology and software. Um,
and we are on, you know, we're still in
a situation where demand is way more
than we can imagine. But that's a
long-term view. I mean at the moment
we're in this very I'm going to say very
str it's life has always been a strange
phase. I mean in strange in different
ways. The current strangeness is we're
basically in a huge certainly in um in
uh the developed world depression. I
mean we've seen a huge amount of job
layoffs. I mean I I've heard numbers
banded around of quarter million half a
million jobs lost. I mean it's that kind
of magnitude. I mean, we're seeing it. I
mean, at Fort Works, we used to be
growing at 20% a year all the time until
about 2021. I mean, we've we've we've
hit a wall, and we see our clients are
just not spending the money on um this
stuff. I mean, AI is doing its own
separate thing, but it's almost like a
separate thing going on, and it's
clearly bubbly, but we don't But the
thing with bubbles is you never know how
big they're going to grow. You don't
know how long it's going to take before
they pop. and you don't know what's
going to be after the pop. I mean, all
this stuff is unpredictable. I do think
there's value in AI in a way that say
there wasn't with blockchain and crypto.
There's definitely stuff in AI, but
exactly how it's going to pan out, who
knows? And I mean, I went through this
cycle with stuff in in the '9s and 2000.
So, it's it's it's a repeat of that only
at probably an order of magnitude more
scale. Um, so all of that's going on,
but really what's happening, the most
important thing that's hit us is not AI.
It's the end of zero interest rates.
That's the big thing that really hit us.
And that's what the job losses started
before AI because of that kicking in and
we don't know how that's going to change
because this is a this is a much more
macroeconomic thing. We have Looney
driving the bus in the in the United
States. We have all sorts of other
pressures going on in internationally.
Great uncertainty at the moment and
that's affecting us because it means
that businesses aren't investing. And
while businesses aren't investing, it's
hard for to to make much progress in in
the software world. And so we have this
weird mix of no investment pretty much
depression in the in the software
industry with an AI bubble going on. And
they're both happening at the same time.
>> And one of mass the other end, yeah,
depends on where you are. Like I was in
Silicon Valley and if you're an AI
company, it all inside it looks all
great. If you're outside, again, you can
benefit from it, but it's it's it's a
lot more careful. And if you're outside
of this bubble, let's say you're at a a
startup or or a company that is not in
AI, it's it's just tough. So, you you
have these these worlds happening. I
mean, this is still, I think, an
industry with plenty of potential in the
future. I think it's a it's a good one
to get into. It's not uh you know, the
timing is not as great as it would be
getting into this industry in say 2005.
Um but you know it I still feel there's
a there's a good profession here. I
don't think AI is going to wipe out
software development. Um I think it'll
change it in a really manifest way like
the change from assembly to high level
languages did but the core skills are
still there and the core skills of being
a good software developer in my view are
still it's not so much about writing
code. That's part of the skill. A lot of
the skill is understanding what to write
which is communication and particularly
communication with the users of software
and crossing that divide which has
always been the most critical um
communication path
>> and and you've also mentioned the expert
general is becoming a lot more important
which all of that when I looked into the
details we'll link it in the the show
again
>> unmesh has been on fire he's on fire but
but it all all the traits seem to do
nothing to do with AI. It's about
curiosity. It's about going deep. Uh
it's about going broad. It it it sounds
like I'm I'm hearing more and more
people who are thinking longer of like
what it means to be a standout software
engineer. The basics don't seem to
change,
>> right? Yeah. I and I I do think that and
it is it is always been communication
and being able to collaborate
effectively with people has always been
to my mind the outstanding quality of
what really makes the the very best
developers. um come through certainly in
the enterprise commercial world which is
the one I'm most familiar with because
every soft all the software we're
writing for is for people who doing
something very different to what we do.
I remember when I was working in health
service I mean I always said you know
here I am doing this conceptual modeling
of health care. I understand a huge
amount about the process of of health
care. You are not going to want me to
treat whatever your medical problems are
because I am never going to have that
skill because I'm not a doctor. Yeah.
>> And so therefore the doctors have to be
involved in the process.
>> So as closing I just wanted to do some
rapid questions where I I'll fire and
then you come what comes to mind. What
is your favorite programming language
and why?
>> Um I would say at the moment my favorite
programming language is Ruby because
it's become it's I'm so familiar with
it. I've been using it for so long. But
the one that is my love is small talk
without a doubt. Small talk. There was
nothing as much fun as programming in
Small Talk when I was able to do it in
the uh in the '9s. That that was such a
fantastic environment.
>> You and Kenbeck and Kenbeck is is
writing his Small Talk server. It's it's
it's his baby. I I think he's making
progress
>> and and I mean there is still stuff
going on. There is the Pharaoh project
in Small Talk. And I keep thinking, you
know, I if I could just take off some
weeks and and stop everything else I was
doing, maybe investigate, see what's
going on in the small talk world again,
cuz it was I mean, and has still so much
power in that language.
>> What are one or two books you would
recommend? Uh, and why?
>> So, a book I I do particularly like to
recommend is Thinking Fast and Slow by
Daniel Kaneman. I like it because um he
does a really good job of trying to give
you an intuition about numbers in and
spotting some of the many mistakes and
fallacies we make when we're thinking in
terms of probability and statistics. And
this is important in software
development and because I mean a lot of
what we do is greatly enhanced by the
fact if we could understand um the
statistical effects of what we see but
also in life in general because I think
uh our world would be a hell of a lot
better if way more people understood a
bit more about probability and
statistics. Yeah. Than they do. I mean I
like most kids probably when they did
maths at school it was heavily
calculus-based. I really do feel that it
would have been a lot better if you know
it was much more statistics based
because that the knowledge of being able
to use that. Well, I mean, one of the
things that has helped me more with
probabil probability is and
probabilistic reasoning has been the
fact that I'm heavily into tabletop
gaming where you have to constantly
think in terms of probabilistics and um
I I just honestly feel that knowing that
is important and this book is I think a
great way to get into that and so it was
one of the best reads I've had in the
last few years. Another book that I'd
mention that is completely separate and
is in challenging in a completely
different way that I've been totally
obsessed with is a book called The Power
Broker. Um, so this is a book about uh a
guy called Robert Moses who most people
have never heard of but was the most
powerful official in New York City for
about 40 years um from about 192 to
1960. He was never elected to any
office. He controlled more money than
the mayor or the governor of New York
during that time. And this book is about
how he rose to power. Um how power works
in a in a democratic society often in
not in plain sight. Um and it's a
fascinating book for that. It's also a
fascinating book because it is so well
written. There have been moments when I
would just, you know, I've been reading
a several page passage of something and
I would just have to stop to just
appreciate how brilliant what was just
read was. And that's valuable because to
be a better writer, and I think we all
gain by being a better writer, it's
really important to read really good
writing. And his writing is magnificent.
The downside is it's 1,200 pages. It's a
really long book, but I was enjoying it
so much that I didn't mind. And then
once you go on from that, you move on to
his second biography because he's only
written two biographies and that's his
currently five volume biography of
Lyndon Baines Johnson, LBJ, which is
equally brilliant and I've been reading
it, but it's a lot more to ask because
it's four volumes so far and he still
hasn't finished the fifth. But again,
there are moments when I was just
gobsmacked by how brilliant the writing
was and gossmacked by the way again
power works in a democratic society and
uh I think to understand how our world
works. These kinds of books are really
really valuable.
>> And finally, can you give us a board
game recommendation? You are very
heavily into board games. Your your
website has a list of them as well.
Yeah, it's a tricky one because it's
kind of like saying I'm really
interested in getting into watching
movies. Which would be the movie you
would recommend? Right. Because I get
it. So many different tastes and things.
If I'm going to pick something that's I
think not too complicated for someone to
get into that I think is is still got
quite a lot of richness at the moment, I
think the game I'd pick out would be
something called Concordia. It's fairly
abstract in its nature, but it's easy to
get into and it's got quite a good bit
of uh decision making in in the process.
>> Well, Martin, thank you so much. It was
great that we could make it happen in
person as well.
>> Yes, having that that worked out really
well. I just happened to be in Amsterdam
for something else and uh I know
somebody in Amsterdam, so I thought I'd
get in touch and we finally get the
chance to meet face to face.
>> It was amazing. Thank you.
>> Thank you. Thanks very much to Martin
for this interesting conversation. One
of the things that really stuck with me
is how the single biggest change with AI
is about how we're going from
deterministic systems to
non-deterministic ones. This means that
our existing software engineering
approaches that were based on assuming a
fully deterministic system like testing,
refactoring and so on, this probably
won't work that well and we might need
new ones unless we can make elements
more deterministic. That is I also liked
how Martin mentioned to us that the
problem with vibe coding is that when
you stop paying attention to the code
generated you stop learning and then you
stop understanding and you might end up
with software that you have no
understanding of. So be mindful in the
cases when you are happy with this
trade-off. For more reading on AI
engineering best practices and an
overview of how the software engineering
field changed in the past 50 years check
out related deep dives in the pragmatic
engineer which are linked in the show
podcast, please do subscribe on your
favorite podcast platform and on
YouTube. This helps more people discover
the podcast and a special thank you if
you leave a rating as well. Thanks and
see you in the next