I would expect total compensation to be
around $400,000
a year. Rust is the most desirable
language and I think part of it is
because AI is overhyped. Why do you
think so?
>> I don't think it can understand. Oh,
Rust is better than Go cuz it has types.
>> Blockchain, web 3.
>> Roughly speaking, gambling. I think my
primary driver for for moving away from
the US was um
Every great tool starts with a problem,
especially programming language. John
Jain said,
what problem was big enough to create
trust? One of the early slogans for Rust
was this sort of um safe, performant,
ergonomic, or usable. Uh can you get all
three or do you always need to trade one
of them away? And it tries to give you
all three of them at the same time. Uh
and traditionally that's been very hard
to achieve with a programming language.
Like if you want it to be ergonomic,
then often you give up speed because you
need to have a runtime and a garbage
collector. So, Rust was trying to sort
of thread the needle of getting in
between those.
John Jain Sat, Rust live coder and
evangelist, PhD from MIT, ex-Amazon, now
principal engineer at Helsing, the
biggest AI defense startup in Europe.
You did your PhD at uh MIT.
And that's well, engineering school
number one. It's intense, it's isolated,
it's brilliant. So,
was it that way for you?
The feeling I had at MIT was very much
one of
uh like collaboration and curiosity of
everyone just
wanting to know stuff and to learn
stuff. Uh so, I ran a board game night
at MIT for many, many years and a lot of
the conversations we ended up having was
just like while playing games was about
oh, what's your research about? And oh,
tell me more about that. And learning
random facts about other fields of
science. And that's really fun. But
there was a culture of that being
like that the exploration, the
curiosity, the interest being a core
part of being there. And then of course,
you have a lot of very smart people both
professors and students um
and
the
there was always a almost all the
professors have like an open door
policy. You just walk in, you can talk
to them about anything and they're
interested in engaging in the
conversation. So, it felt like a very
collaborative environment. So, a lot of
the work that I did during my PhD was
work that was like in the open source
space, in the Rust space because that's
where I felt like I could expand my
learning and also try to teach some of
the things I was learning. Uh and I had
the the space to explore using a new
language because curiosity is king in a
way. Um there was no pushback internally
in my lab or from my professor to go try
this brand new language for what was
going to eventually become my PhD thesis
project. So, did you start using Rust
there? Yeah, so I started using Rust for
the uh second prototype of my research
database. So, the the first like draft
of it, which I threw away after a couple
of months, was written in Go. You know,
I wrote it in Go and then realized that
I wanted to design the system
differently because I wanted the
database to look different. And so, it
wasn't a I don't want to use Go for
this. It was more of a I need to rewrite
this anyway. And then I saw the Rust 1.0
announcement like a few months prior and
I was thinking, well, this is going to
be a highly concurrent codebase and I
think programming languages are
interesting. So, what if I just try
doing it in this language? And then I
just never stopped.
We've got recently
uh
results of Stack Overflow survey.
And uh Rust continues to be the the most
most admired language for already 9
years in a row. But uh if we look like
how many developers use Rust, it's like
12, maybe 13, 14%. So, not that much.
What is the number one reason for that?
Um So, so I think the the answer almost
lies in the question in that Rust is the
most desirable language and I think part
of it is because people don't get to use
it as much as they want to. It could be
that if adoption was much bigger, the
number of people who want to use it goes
down. So, it's almost like because
they're denied access to it, people want
it more. That could be a part of the
answer. But but I don't think that
that's the end of it, right? I think
that that's just a
a facet to the answer. I think the other
part of this is um the the biggest
barrier to adoption maybe is um
momentum in existing companies. Adopting
a new language is seen as a big cost
because it is, right? You have a bunch
of talent already at your company that
know the existing codebase, existing
language. And if you were to switch
Rust, all of those people would suddenly
need to learn Rust, which is a huge
investment. Um but also not to mention
all your current code is not Rust. So,
you either need to translate it or over
time you need to build up like
replacement components or you need to
start like porting it bit by bit. Um and
and all of this is like a very costly
endeavor. And so, I think it's a um you
know, the
the switching cost is so high that most
companies are not willing to do it
unless there's a very, very strong
reason. And to be fair, we are seeing
some companies go down that adoption
path. Like big players like like AWS,
for example, are starting to build big
components in Rust or replace existing
components with Rust. But it's a gradual
process. You you can't do it all at
once. And so, as a result, you end up
with this um slow adoption curve and I
think it has to be. Does it have
something in common with uh this
learning curve? I actually think
adoption is not that related to the
learning curve. Like I do think Rust has
a
peculiar learning curve compared to many
languages. Um but it's not clear to me
that that's the barrier to adoption. I
think it's the barrier maybe to why
there aren't more Rust programmers,
maybe. But I'm already seeing a lot of
interest in Rust, especially from junior
engineers, but also from senior
engineers. And of course, juniors become
seniors over time.
Um
but
but I don't think that that's the reason
why companies will not adopt it. Uh so,
after MIT, you joined uh AWS and you
worked on some Rust-built
infrastructure.
And what kinds of problems you were
solving there?
So, so at AWS, my job was to develop and
maintain and support the Rust build
system at AWS. So, any um
Amazon codebase built in Rust was using
my build system to build all of their
Rust code. Over time, that that So, that
started out as adopting a sort of
grassroots build system someone had
built internally um and growing that
into a more mature internal tool. Um and
then over time, it included things like
working with security to make sure it
integrates with all of the security
tracking and provenance information and
all of that stuff. Um improving the
ergonomics so that it works with IDE
integration and um
uh you know, getting good debug logs and
build logs and test logs. All the way up
to, you know, how do we make the user
experience really good so that you can
actually run standard cargo tools rather
than, you know, something completely
custom that has to be built just for
AWS. Was there any uh internal
resistance? Amazon is an interesting
company in that there's very little
mandate for what language you use. Um
it's not like people tell you you must
use this language. At least that's
uncommon. Um people choose language
based on need and very often the answer
to that is Java.
But that's because so much of AWS is
already built on Java. So, there's like
supporting libraries for everything, the
infrastructure for telemetry and
debugging and logging and build system,
like all of that stuff is so well built
out. And so, it's very easy to integrate
with everything by using Java and we
have a lot of or
engineers that use Java as well. And so,
the the pool of people who can work on
that and for whom that's the language of
preference was large. Um
And then I think Kotlin is a close
number two. Like people increasingly
wanting to use Kotlin over Java because
it's a better experience. But that also
meant that it was very easy for people
to go, actually, we want to use Rust
now. Um and then, you know, this
grassroots build system for Rust popped
up and then people started using Rust.
Uh and it grew to the point where there
was sort of a a decision to invest in,
okay, let's officially support this
language internally now.
So, you like Rust and you work on
introducing it. And then and then it
looks like some people are supposed to
use Rust.
>> other way around. It's it's the other
way around. It's not like I went to
teams and tried to encourage them to
adopt Rust. It's the teams came to me
and said, we would also like to use
Rust. Help us do that. Okay.
>> the drive was very much from the teams
who wanted to use it. The there wasn't
really a need for a push operation
because we already had so many people
wanting to use it. Was it the right
decision to switch some certain parts of
codebase to Rust? In a way, I'm the
wrong person to ask, right? Like you
would have to ask the teams that ended
up using it and ask about the pain
they've gone through since. But but in
general, I think there's been a a huge
success story to it. Um especially in
terms of like latency um and tail
latency in particular because Java and
Kotlin struggle with this like when you
have a runtime and a garbage collector,
it it's so easy that your tail latency
ends up increasing quite a lot or your
minimum latency is decently high because
of startup costs. Whereas with Rust,
many of those problems almost go away by
construction. Um
so, I don't think I've at least heard a
lot of we regret the choice of Rust
there. Quite to the contrary.
All right. Uh some people say that uh
Rust was created by geeks for geeks and
business interests came second.
I don't think it's because Rust is not
designed for business. Because certainly
we see it adopted at huge scale at AWS,
at Meta, um you know, increasingly at
Google with with uh Fuchsia. Um so, it's
not as though it's not being used for
business things. Um but it is the case
that it's a it's a newer language and
all of your stuff is not written in Rust
today. So, it's more of a question of
willingness to rewrite, access to
talent, um access to training for your
existing folks, um and even just sort of
maturity of the ecosystem, right? It
might be that you need
a library that does something very
specific to the protocols you implement
and that just hasn't been built in Rust
or it's been built, but it hasn't
matured, whatever it might be. Like for
example, there was a case with Discord,
they started rewriting everything to
Rust and they had a huge code base in
Go, I think. And then at some point they
stopped this transition. But what
actually kills migrations like to Rust?
It's hard to try to draw a generalized
lesson from something like like the
Discord story because we don't know
behind the scenes what bottlenecks they
ran into when trying to do this
migration. There are some places where
um Rust is not a great fit. Like for
example, if
if you really have to interface a lot
with C++ heavy code bases. Like if you
have to do extensive integration with,
let's say, CUDA and Intel DPDK and uh
some hardware vendor driver library and
also with like Unity or something. You
That's a bunch of C++ dependencies that
have a lot of infrastructure around
them. So, if you had to interface with
all of those, trying to put Rust in the
middle is going to be a lot of pain and
it's unclear whether the gain is worth
the cost. So, that can be one example of
something that might
you know, make you hesitant to adopt
Rust in that space.
The other is if you have a very
battle-tested application that doesn't
really need to change very often and it
just it just kind of works. Um rewriting
it is always a risk like it whether to
Rust or something else. And the question
is if you already have a well-behaving
robust application, is it worth changing
it? Uh and many times the answer could
be no or at least no no not at the
moment. It could be that they ran into
some parts of their code base where that
was the case. It could be that they ran
into to um
a hiring limitation, right? Like they
don't have enough Rust programmers for
everything to be Rust yet, right? And
so, until they've hired to that point or
trained their existing folks to be
comfortable owning Rust code bases,
they just can't move they make the move
cuz they need people to maintain the
other parts. And it's hard to say which
of these things they ran into. AWS, it's
kind of like they they have their own
specific tasks and beyond AWS, like are
there areas where Rust is really
successful? Like which which
industries or or tools are clearly like
betting
on it right now? The areas where I've
seen the most eager adoption of Rust is
embedded development. I've seen a lot of
Rust. Um so, for embedded development,
like really low-level embedded
development where you want to directly
program an ESP32 or something, um Rust
has seen a lot of adoption because
the choices you have are C or C++ or
Rust. There's not a whole lot of other
options and when given the choice
between those, people would rather a
more modern safer language that has good
support for third-party ecosystems than
C and C++.
Uh and so, the the entryway into that
space was pretty easy. I think the
second one we've seen a decent amount of
adoption is actually in command-line
tools. Um so, Rust is and this is
partially due to this a crate called
clap that makes it really easy to build
command-line interfaces. Um and so, that
I think spurred on a lot of people
going, "Oh, I'm just going to write this
command-line tool in in Rust cuz it's
easy." Uh safety-critical applications
is the other space. So, that's both in
um the defense sector, it's also in the
automotive sector and to an extent in
sort of space operations as well, where
you really need systems that are very
very robust. Um and traditionally those
places
don't use runtime languages. They tend
to be like C or C++ shops. And what Rust
is promising over C and C++ is addition
of safety and so, that is a very
attractive proposition for
safety-critical applications. Um and
it's sort of one step less than going to
something like Ada, for example, um
which is feels like maybe um
uh
too much of a burden on developers, at
least for a subset of these systems. If
your goal is to pitch Rust to some Go
team, maybe like in one sentence, what
would you say to them? To a Go team, I
think what I would do is something like,
"Isn't awful when your application
crashes at runtime
because you made an error?"
In Rust, that is much less likely to
happen.
I think the argument is that simple. And
it's it's one of those where people
don't believe you at first. They go,
"Well, I don't get null pointer
exceptions in Go." Well, you get you
kind of get nil pointer exceptions
roughly. Um or like I don't get double
freeze. That's true. You don't get like
free freeing allocation errors and
stuff. But you do get a lot of business
logic errors and Rust can help you with
those too. Right? It's not as though
Rust only helps with memory safety. The
expressive type system also means that
you can
establish more guarantees at compile
time and that makes you way more
comfortable with the code you've written
being actually correct and much less
likely for your code to be wrong at
runtime. I like this game like C++ team.
What would you tell them? I think for
C++ Yeah, if they're ready to listen to
you. I I think for C++ um the argument
goes something like um
okay, no use after free, no double free.
You don't have to worry about free, it
just happens automatically. You get that
a lot already in C++ just because of
RAII.
But what you don't get as much of in C++
is concurrency safety.
So, in Rust, it is very hard for you to
have concurrency bugs.
Um in C++, it's very easy to have
concurrency bugs because there's nothing
that helps you get them right. You can
run like address sanitizer and thread
sanitizer and all of that, but
fundamentally those only detect the
errors that do happen, like that that
actually manifest in this particular
execution, whereas Rust can exclude them
at compile time statically and that is a
major difference for anything that's a
concurrent program. So, I think that's
that's the primary argument for C++ and
then the secondary argument is,
"Wouldn't it be nice if you had like a
good build system with third-party
dependencies?" And then they cry.
You spent uh
almost like I think a decade in the US.
Uh like PhD at MIT, then Amazon and then
in 2023,
you moved back to Norway.
So, why did you decide to move from the
US to Europe?
Um
I think my primary driver for for moving
away from the US was um
I don't really like the US. Uh what I
mean by that is um
there are a lot of things that I found
that I appreciate in a society and I
mean society here not as in the people,
but in the the things that the society
and the societal structure around you
provides that I don't see in the US, but
I see in Europe. Um and there's I could
sort of start a laundry list of the
things in the US, right? But but just to
take one example is the way that health
care is approached in the US
makes me really upset. I don't want to
live in a society that operates health
care that way. Um and so, and then there
were sort of uh a large number of those
things that actually meant that when I
finished my PhD, it was when I was
planning to move out of the US. Um and
then my partner wanted to move to LA for
work
and so, we decided, "Okay, let's do that
for a few years." Um and then after a
few years, we went, "Okay, it's now time
to leave." Um
and at that point we then left for
Europe. We were debating whether we
would move somewhere else, but I have
family in Norway, it would be nice to
move back and see, you know, can we
establish something here? Um
Too early to tell whether that is going
to be the the permanent place either. I
I genuinely don't know, but it was a it
was more of a well, I don't want to be
in the US um and the alternative that
the primary alternative seems to be
Norway because I have connections there.
Um we'll see how that goes and worst
case, we'll move again. But I tend to be
a person who enjoys to move anyway. So,
I I consider the the threshold or the
barrier to moving quite low. So, moving
and then moving again is is fine by me.
Was it uh easy to find the Rust role in
Europe? And maybe in general, like is
there difference between US market for
Rust developers and European market?
Um
the US tends to be more remote-friendly.
Um like especially a lot of the tech
companies in Silicon Valley are happy to
hire anywhere in the US, uh outside the
US often as well. Uh whereas it seems
like European companies are slightly
less happy to hire remotely. Um the
salary is lower in Europe um in in the
in the computer science sector. Um
and
I think the other difference maybe is
there there are just fewer companies in
general in the tech sector in Europe
than there are in the US. Uh and fewer
of them seem to be using Rust. But
certainly when I when I was moving from
the US to Europe,
I put out a sort of announcement on
social media and everything that I was
moving and looking for work and I got a
lot of companies that reached out,
including a bunch from Europe. So it's
not like they don't exist. So as you
mentioned salaries, so our team looked
up numbers.
So in Norway, a senior Java developer
make around uh 94k
a year.
What's the realistic range for a Rust
engineer in Norway? Very hard to say. I
I think that the salaries vary quite a
lot. But part of it is also whether
you're working for a a startup or a more
established company, right? Because for
for a startup, you tend to get paid less
in terms of cash value, but then
obviously you're betting on the startup
doing well, and so you get paid a bunch
in equity that's not worth anything
unless the company does well, in which
case it's worth a lot. Um and so it's
it's hard to say what the expected
salary is, because I also think Rust is
more likely to be used in startups,
which sort of pulls the the expected
compensation down. Um
my expectation would be that it's
somewhere around 150 maybe for like
senior Rust person in Norway, maybe my
guess. Um whereas if you're in the the
US market, a senior Rust engineer,
you would be paid like let's take um
Amazon as an example. Um I think I mean
these are slightly dated numbers now
since when I left, but I would expect
total compensation to be around $400,000
a year. So it's like a significantly
higher salary. Uh dollars not euros, but
you know, they're not too far apart. Um
The downside of course is you have a lot
more expenses of things like healthcare
and everything, but even adjusting for
those, I think the salary is undeniably
higher in the US than it is in Europe.
And also vacation days. Yeah, yeah. I
mean that I mean don't get me wrong. I
would much rather work here than in the
US. But just focused on salary, the
salary is is undeniably higher there.
And then the question is like how much
Well, like what is those those extra
dollars or euros worth to you? And to me
they're not worth the things I'd be
giving up. That's which is one of the
reasons I moved. Uh you joined uh
Helsing, which is a European defense AI
company.
>> Mhm.
And with this defense thing, some people
were like like in community were
cheerful, but some of them were
uncomfortable. Oh, I It's funny because
I'm also uncomfortable with it, right? I
I I'm I would expect everyone to be
uncomfortable with the military and with
the defense sector, because it's
inherently an uncomfortable topic for
humans. So like I was not at all
surprised really that people were
uncomfortable. If anything, that's sort
of the reaction I expected. What uh Rust
has in in this area? I think it's
in a in a way it's obvious, right? Like
this is a a sector where
safety criticality is
well, critical, right? It's it really is
safety critical. If you get things
wrong, the implications are severe. And
so that means you really want to make
sure the software you you write does
what you intended it to do. Um and
Rust helps you do that, right? By um
statically eliminating bugs bugs for
example. Like an example here is um the
So I recently wrote a Rust library for
um spatial math transformations, so like
3D coordinate system and frame of
reference uh conversions. And the
library has almost no code. It has
almost no implementation code, because
it's just it's just matrix multiplies
and quaternions and stuff. But what it
does is it does um type state encoding
of coordinate systems to make it
basically impossible for you to take a
coordinate that's in one frame of
reference system and accidentally use it
as though it was in in another one. And
this is the kind of bug where if you
didn't have a strong type system, you
couldn't express this. You would just
have a coordinate type, and you better
remember which one is in which frame of
reference system and don't use them
incorrectly. Whereas in Rust I can
actually enforce that at compile time,
which means that I end up with software
that's less likely to contain bugs of a
certain kind. And then you can
generalize this to more and more places
where you can use the type system to
ensure safety at compile time, and you
end up with a a program better suited
for safety critical applications. Are
there analogous uh like similar
libraries in Python? This library that I
wrote has almost no implementation code.
There's almost no math in there. All the
math is in like a linear algebra
libraries. I'm using an algebra in Rust.
And in Python you would use I don't
know, NumPy or SciPy or or any of the
sort of linear algebra libraries in
Python, and you would have the same
code, but expressing it in the type
system so that you get a a variable
whose type is, you know, coordinate in
ECEF or coordinate in this plane's NED
system.
You you don't have a way to express that
in Python. And so you you couldn't port
this library to Python, because porting
it would mean removing all the types, at
which point the library is empty.
So there is nothing to port to Python.
There there can't exist something like
this in Python. And there are a few
caveats here around maybe you could do
something in my pie with like not using
generics, but sort of
long string generated type names
something. But in Rust this is a very
natural way to write a program.
And so it feels very valuable to be able
to make use of it, and I don't see an
obvious way you could you make use of
that in other languages. In Helsing you
you hire Rust developers. Is it an easy
task to find Rust developer?
So yes and no. There are a lot of Rust
developers on the market. Um what I've
found though is that there tends to be
more junior engineers than senior
engineers on the Rust job market. Um
which is a challenge for companies that
are looking to grow very large in the
Rust space, or or even just to adopt
Rust for the first time, because what
they need are senior engineers that can
then guide up the junior engineers. You
don't really want to start a company's
Rust journey with junior Rust folks.
Like they don't really have the the um
accumulated experience to bootstrap the
project in a safe or in a healthy way,
right? Um you need the one or two senior
people first that that you can then grow
a team around. So at Helsing we've I
think been
uh like happily been able to hire like a
decent number of senior Rust people, but
you're still kind of capped on the
number of junior people you can hire
based on the number of senior people you
currently have. So I think the
biggest struggle for us maybe has been
to hire more senior people, because not
because we don't hire the juniors, but
we need more seniors to fit more
juniors, if you if that makes sense.
Is your personal brand in the Rust
community helping with this goal? I
think so, but but I
I think it's helping in a very
particular way. So I think my my
personal brand here helps in making
people curious about Helsing as a
company. Um and it makes them think that
it must be an interesting place to work
because John chooses to work there and
talks about what it's like. Um
but I don't think it makes senior
engineers who are happy at other
companies go, maybe I'll switch company.
Like I don't think it it goes quite to
that level. And the reality is that a
lot of the senior Rust engineers you
would want to hire are already employed
elsewhere. And so it's it's not
sufficient to make them interested. They
also need to be willing to switch jobs.
Um and my personal brand can't can't do
that alone.
When you were job hunting in Europe, you
wrote in your LinkedIn I think uh I'm
not looking for work in the
cryptocurrency, blockchain, web3, or
DeFi spaces. Why is that?
I have this need for the work that I do
to to feel like it
matters in a positive way in the world.
Like that's one of the reasons I do
education is because I think it it
matters. Um and and I feel the same way
about my work that I want to work on
something where I feel like there's a a
positive impact on the world as a result
of the work that I do. And for the
crypto space,
the work there is super interesting.
Like the algorithms, the data
structures, the many of the like
distributed systems problems are are
fascinating. There's a lot of
intellectual depth to them.
But I I have yet to see why it matters.
I get a lot of the theoretical
arguments, but in practice I just don't
see them having the the the sort of
promised impact, if you will. If
anything, I feel like the the places
where I see these spaces have found use
is like more negative than positive. Um
and that that that's no that's not to
sort of dismiss the people who work in
those industries, quite to the contrary.
I think it's super interesting technical
work, but for me that's not enough. If
someone is looking for a job in Rust,
they they see a lot of
job postings in this crypto area. So
what what what makes Rust so good for
for this particular thing? It's
something that's fascinated me of like
why is Rust so commonly used in the in
the crypto world. The best I can think
of is that you end up building
systems that need to be quite parallel.
There's a lot of sort of distributed
systems protocols. Correctness is quite
important because you're building like
things that need to be correct in some
way. Um
and so
maybe that lends itself to Rust. Maybe
it's also the fact that a lot of these
things are built from scratch, and so
you get free reign when choosing a
programming language, and a lot of those
people choose Rust. Maybe there's
something here about smart contracts and
web assembly compilation or or something
in that space. But but I still don't
know what the the full answer to to why
it's so prominent there. Interestingly
actually,
so you know, crypto both means
cryptocurrency, but it cryptography. And
Rust is also quite widely used in
cryptography, and there I see it a lot
more because if you want really secure
cryptographic libraries, that feels like
something that's worth implementing in
Rust to eliminate some of the potential
error cases in the cryptography where
the impact is is certainly high. The
United States, they approved um
uh
exchange-traded funds on Bitcoin, so it
looks like they're making it official
part of financial system.
So, do you think that this is somehow
like changing how crypto is seen in this
world or not? Like for you and maybe in
general.
To me,
Bitcoin is
roughly speaking, gambling in the same
way that the stock market to an extent
is gambling, although you you have more
insight into the odds, maybe. To me, it
feels almost purely speculative in the
same way that much of the stock market
is speculative. So, in a way, Bitcoin
being traded, even if it's indirectly,
on the stock exchange,
feels to me like par for the course.
That feels appropriate given what it is.
And I mean, it's not clear to me that
that adds any more credence to its value
as a as a financial unit.
On one of your streams, you you said AI
is overhyped.
Why do you think so?
So, I'm going to sort of date myself
here a little bit, or maybe date is even
the wrong word. I'm going to like
Luddite myself a little here. I think
what's happened with AI is that people
are seeing some of the things that are
really impressive,
and I think they're extrapolating from
that abilities that the AI does not
have, and that is not trivial to add.
So, I think that um when we look at
things like um
I mean, the output of LLMs has gotten
very
good, very real-seeming, and very
fluent. But where it falls short is on
things like actually understanding the
topic that they're talking about or that
they're trying to express. Um
And that to me is not something that's
just like one fine-tuning of the model
away. It's something where I haven't
really seen it get better. I've seen it
get better at maybe faking it, but
when you ask it for things that are like
there there was a recent study uh where
they tried to figure out whether
uh
like LLMs or machine learning approaches
could find the underlying physics model
of like the movement of uh celestial
bodies, and they basically found that
no, they can't.
They are really good at predicting the
positions of planets, but they can't
actually come up with what is the
uh what is the underlying principle
that's driving it. And it's because
they're really good at the the pattern
replication and extrapolation, but
they're not good at understanding that
there's an underlying model.
Uh and I mean here like physics model,
for example, not not machine learning
model.
Uh I I expect to see the same thing in
in um agentic AI for coding, for
example, where
um it's very good at producing code,
perhaps even correct code, when it can
work from examples that already exist,
or when it can adapt multiple examples
and merge them together. Where it's less
clear to me that it can do well are on
tasks where you need to understand the
underlying program structure at like a
deeper level. You need to understand how
the type system works because and this
is where I'm I'm skeptical, I don't
think it can understand. That's not to
say that we could never build AI that
does that, but I think that's more
towards like general-purpose AI than the
current like LLM-driven machine
learning.
Um and so that's where my skepticism
comes in. But this is the kind of thing
where
I also feel like I'm speaking from
speculation almost entirely. I don't
have the hard facts for this. It's just
a just a feeling. And so one of the
things that I've sort of tasked myself
with here is to do more to use agentic
AI more precisely to try to test its
limits here. And so I've set myself some
like internal
uh boundary measurements for things I
think will be hard for it and where I
want to see whether it could succeed or
not. And we'll we'll we'll see over time
whether I whether I manage to prove
myself wrong here.
I mean, that should always be the goal,
right? Like come up with a hypothesis,
like I don't think they can reason, and
then try to prove myself wrong.
But uh we should admit that AI these
days writes more and more code. Oh, for
sure. But I think the question becomes
what code is it writing? And uh so, what
do you think about this this uh idea
that eventually it will take all
developers' uh jobs? Yeah, I mean,
that's the thing that I just do not
believe because, again, I do not think
it can reason.
I think it can really well replicate
um
structure. It can really well replicate
patterns. It can really well replicate
even like even things where there's not
really a pattern, just the the kinds of
programs that people have written
before, and it can figure out how to
meld them together to make a reasonable
like resulting code base, similar to how
it can construct complex sentences and
documents. But
that doesn't mean that the thing it
builds is um
is reasonable or correct. I think what
it's really good at and what um what we
should be utilizing it for is for a lot
of that work that is easily replicable,
that a bunch of people have done before
or have done something similar. Like
let's take interacting with um Amazon S3
or DynamoDB or something where there's
so much code written to do those
interactions or to do them in the same
ways, and so we should expect that like
an agentic AI coding thing should be
able to also write code that does that
well. And so I would love to use that
for that so that I don't have to go look
at all the documentation and look at all
the Stack Overflow posts and write that
code myself. I can just have it build
something for me and then check it.
Seems great. Saves me a bunch of time.
But on the uh like to take the example
from uh from my presentation that I gave
at the the Rust Amsterdam meetup on
Squaba, the Squaba is like a a type-safe
library that's really just type coding.
There's no implementation code for
enforcing invariants in the type system.
Not clear to me that you could use
agentic AI to build that because it
requires understanding how the type
system works and how you can en- force
particular behaviors using it. It's not
really following established patterns in
that way.
But I would love to be proven wrong. So,
you you mentioning like quite
complicated designs for a library, and
maybe for that AI is not that scary.
But like just just imagine like there is
someone
watching us here, and they they have
this fear of AI replacing them. So, what
advice would you give to them?
I think my answer is going to be split
here. I think the fear to an extent is
real
um because there are
software engineering jobs that I think
machine learning can do really well.
Like if your job is
um
designing WordPress templates, for
example, is something that where there
are a lot of examples for machine
learning to learn from.
Uh there So, there's there's a lot of
pattern replication it can do to produce
things that are reasonable.
Um it's not like the resulting thing
requires that you have a deep
understanding or develop some new
intuition.
It's really just pattern replication and
then figure out how you mutate the
pattern to make it look the way the user
wants.
There I expect that it's going to be
very hard to have a job as a template
designer for WordPress
in the coming years. Uh that seems to me
like something that's probably going
away.
On the other extreme of the scale,
right? If you're writing research papers
about uh
new like snippets of assembly code that
perfectly optimizes doing a fast Fourier
transform, not clear to me that the
you could just prompt that to the
agentic AI and it would give you better
assembly. That seems to me unlikely.
But then there's a whole spectrum in
between, and the question becomes like
where does the agentic AI go from uh it
completely replaces your job to it
replaces a part of your job to it's a
tool that can help you to it's
completely useless. Uh and I I think
that we have the whole spectrum, and
figure out where you sit on that
spectrum is difficult.
But I think part of what will happen is,
you know, I saw a good example, I think
it was on Blue Sky the other day, of
someone saying
uh quitting your job as a software
engineer now because of agentic AI is
like quitting being a carpenter because
of the sawmill.
It makes no sense, right? It's a better
tool that we can make use of, and
hopefully that means you're now capable
of building more interesting things. So,
lean into this, right? Like uh let's say
that you're a developer who
builds WordPress templates. Maybe now
the agentic AI can build all those
WordPress templates for you, and the
thing that you get good at is building
tooling for users to build their
WordPress template themselves.
So, you take one step up and build the
the the thing that uses the tool. Think
of it as a utility that you can do you
can use to make your craft better and to
improve what you're able to deliver as
value rather than as a this will be a
stand-in for me and therefore I'm now
out of a job.
But I do acknowledge the fear, right?
Like this this is a disruptive
technology. There there's no doubt about
that. Let's focus on AI and Rust
specifically.
Uh do you think that applying generative
AI to Rust is somehow different to
applying it to some other programming
languages like generating Java or C++ or
Python?
I do think generating Rust code is
probably harder for LLM style AI.
Um and and the reason this actually
relates to one of the one of the other
things we talked about, which is this
idea that Rust has
an additional mental component to many
other languages. Like there's a there's
a fundamental concept of Rust of this
idea of lifetimes and the borrow checker
that other languages don't have. And
it's something where, you know, we see
this with programmers who don't have
that understanding, that mental model of
the borrow checker, trying to write Rust
as though it's some other language with
different syntax. And then they
immediately run into problems. Like it
becomes really hard to write the
programs they want to write. And the
reason for that is because they're
lacking that understanding and they're
trying to write a program absent that
understanding and then it's just wrong.
And I think we will see the same thing
with AI that when writing Rust code,
they also need to, if not understand
this other piece, be able to at least
faithfully replicate it or replicate
well enough that they produce a correct
program. So that's it's it's not that
it's impossible for it to do so, but it
increases the complexity of the task. Is
it possible to to use Rust as a basis
for AI infrastructure? Like we know that
a lot of things is implemented in Python
right now and Rust is used with Python
in many projects. So can we use it for
AI? So I think we can, but I think
there's an interesting question of
whether we should.
So so where I work now, we use machine
learning both in production but also for
research. And the reality is that I
don't think we want to use Rust on the
research side because for machine
learning researchers, it's not clear to
me that Rust is the right language. They
do a lot of prototyping, rapid
iteration, building things and throwing
them away. And and Rust isn't really
built for that. Right? As we as we
talked about earlier, Rust tries to
force you it gives you the headache up
front. It tries to force you to think
carefully through your program to make
sure it's completely correct by the time
it runs.
But when you're iterating on like um an
idea for how to restructure your model
or your training, that's not important.
What matters is that this run does
something and you can look at the
results and then you can iterate. And so
Rust doesn't feel like the appropriate
language. Not to mention all of the
research out there in AI and machine
learning tends to be Python based. All
of the libraries that people write tend
to be Python.
And so I actually think we should lean
into that and say, on the machine
learning side, we want people to keep
using Python. On the production side
though, like you don't really want to
deploy Python in your car. That seems
unwise, certainly in like anything that
resembles the safety critical systems or
self-driving systems, you don't want
Python there. You want a language like
Rust. And so the question becomes how do
we bridge the gap? How do we take the
output of the machine learning research
and make it usable
with Rust in production? And there are
ways to do this. Like you have things
like ONNX runtime that lets you build a
model in Python but use it from Rust.
You have things like Candle that allows
you to basically do PyTorch in Rust and
so you can port the Python code-ish to
Rust. So there are a bunch of mechanisms
here and I think that's the way to
approach the problem is
I want to use Rust for more machine
learning bits, but only for the part
after the research has happened.
And so I I want us to focus on making
that experience as good as it can,
rather than trying to make all the
machine learning researchers use Rust
instead of Python. Let's speculate a
little bit and take a
10 years horizon.
Do you predict any changes in how human
software engineers work in 10 years?
I think the answer to this depends on
how wrong I am about my my light light
approach to AI. Right? If it turns out
that actually machine learning models
and and the the agentic AI we have
is or will become really good at
reasoning. Like they'll be really good
at just
flawlessly making changes from the
beginning or requiring very little
prompting to get even very sophisticated
software systems, including things that
are innovative that haven't been built
before, being creative, then yes, I
think things would change a lot. I'm
skeptical that that will change in the
next 10 years. I think what we will
probably see is the tooling getting so
good that you can accelerate yourself a
lot by using these tools, especially for
repetitive tasks, tasks that look a lot
like what other people have developed in
the past, stuff like,
you know, I recently wrote a Slack bot
for playing a particular card game
through DMs to Slack.
That thing not super complicated. Like
it's a bunch of it is just figuring out
how to interact with the Slack APIs,
encoding the rules of the game and then
hooking it all together in like a a
thing that runs an Axum web server that
listens to API events. That thing I
could probably vibe code without too
much problems. And I think in the next
10 years I could probably do so very
quickly and efficiently. These days my
guess is I would I would need to do
quite a lot of coaching to get it to
work end to end, but I probably could.
So I think for a lot of things that we
build either for fun or as throwaways or
things that resemble production systems
that have built a lot before, I I think
this is a an accelerator for existing
software engineers that we will only see
grow bigger and more widely used. Um and
that of course does change the makeup of
human software engineers. It changes our
job in a way for at least a
you know, on on the sort of spectrum
from
uh very very straightforward repetitive
uh almost like copy paste work to very
innovative research, it changes where on
that spectrum people use more of agentic
AI, but I don't think it's going to tip
all the way over where human software
engineers just become prompters or just
babysit a bunch of agentic AI. I think
that will happen for a a subset of the
space, but I don't think it's going to
replace what everyone does all of all
the all of the time. You are optimistic
about the future. Yeah.
I don't know whether I'm optimistic or
pessimistic. I think it depends on the
topic. I think for software engineering
and AI, I'm optimistic.
But it's because of this
assumption I have maybe or speculation I
have that AI is is somewhat overhyped
and therefore
I don't think it'll be as bad as people
think it will be.
But I think it's partially also a
mentality thing that I see this as a
a tool that I can make use of rather
than something that is out to replace my
job.
But part of that also comes from a
position of privilege, right? Like
the software engineering that I do is
fairly involved maybe or or it's like
further on the the spectrum towards
doing new stuff, things that require a
decent amount of creativity or new
thinking where it hasn't been done
before where I'm much less worried that
agentic AI is going to do that thing
that that I think I have a a knack for.
And so therefore I can I can afford to
see it as a tool. I think if you're more
on the boilerplate copy paste type work,
then then I think I would be more
pessimistic maybe.
But for the industry as a whole, I I
think I'm optimistic. Okay, now now we
have several questions as I said like
Rust vs. some other programming
language. So we we expect to have some
fun content here. Okay.
Um
Uh where Rust is really better than Go?
Oh, Rust is better than Go cuz it has
types.
Uh this is this was super easy. So Go,
when you when they made Go, they chose
to ignore basically all programming
research from the past like since the
1970s. And when they made Rust, they
decided to learn from programming
innovation in programming languages
since the 1970s. And so you ended up
with a language that is yes, more
complex, but also way more fun to write
and way more expressive. And that to me
is like the big difference and the
reason why I don't want to use Go.
Are there reasons where you would still
choose C++ for your project?
I would use C++ if I have to interface
with a bunch of other C++ projects
extensively over time. So if I have to
integrate with all of this like complex
C++ stuff, I don't really want to
maintain all the Rust bindings. The only
exception would be if I expect that I
need to use the same C++ project or
library in a bunch of Rust code bases,
then I would swallow the pill and write
the the Rust like bindings once and then
just do Rust for everywhere. But if it's
just like one project that needs to
interface with one, two, three big C++
projects, I I would use C++. So what do
you think about this statement? Rust is
only for those who write C++. No, I
don't think this is true. Quite to the
contrary actually. I think if you're
writing C++, you already have a language
that's fine for you. I I think
you could do better, but it it works
fine. I actually think Rust is even
better for those who come from a Java or
Go or JavaScript background where you
realize you've hit the borders of what
you can do with this language in terms
of performance, in terms of
expressivity, and you want something
that is actually way faster and safer
and more expressive. And Rust gives you
all those things. So it's it's almost a
the the cell is easier to those coming
from a more dynamic programming
background. What Rust feature annoys you
the most? So I think there are two
answers to this. The first answer to
this is the borrow checker because it is
the thing that I run into issues with
the most. I still love it. I still want
it to be there, but it is the thing that
annoys me the most.
I I think, you know, more realistically,
the answer is
I still find the experience of of
finding third-party dependencies for
things frustrating in Rust. Um
not not because they things don't exist,
but because
many of them are like one person wrote
it cuz they needed it, and then they
haven't touched it in 3 years cuz they
stopped needing it. And so there's a
decent amount of libraries like I think
at this point you have library
implementation for lots of services and
APIs out there, but so many of them are
like not widely used and therefore not
super well maintained.
And that I run into time and time again,
and it makes me sad. But I think it's
something that gets better as you see
more adoption as well. So I'm not really
concerned, but it does annoy me because
usually these libraries work fine.
They're just like they haven't been
updated in ages. So I'm using something
that's old and not really thought
through, and I know it can be better and
and that annoys me. Many people say that
it's difficult to learn Rust. So what's
the the hardest moment there when you
were trying to learn it? I think the
biggest thing is because Rust is not
just a different syntax for the
languages that people are used to.
Right? If you were to move from um
you know, Java to Go or or to an extent
like C++ to Go, um
those are
syntactically different, but they feel
very similar in the sense that you don't
really need to learn new concepts. Maybe
you need to learn about what a Go
routine is, but it's not that
complicated or what a channel is. It's
not that complicated. Whereas with Rust,
you need to like
learn a new skill almost. Like there's a
there's a part of your programmer brain
that you haven't built yet, and it's the
borrow checker. Like most developers do
not have a borrow checker in their head.
One second. We have We have some Reddit
comment here. Let me read it actually.
That's that's exactly about borrow
checker. So I wanted to learn Rust for a
while now, but I got discouraged because
people on the internet say the Rust
borrow checker is tough to understand.
This made me unsure about learning Rust,
and I'm kind of scared to even try. So
could you explain the borrow checker for
for this guy on Reddit? Okay, so I I
think I think this is a great question
because in a way
my answer is yes, the borrow checker is
hard, but it is a great way to make you
a better programmer.
Like the way in which you write C and
C++ code without making mistakes is that
you start to develop an internal borrow
checker. Like if you talk to really good
C and C++ programmers, they have in this
idea of oh, it's not safe to free this
thing here because it's still used
somewhere. Or oh, you can't use this
here cuz it's already been freed. That
is a borrow checker. So what they're
doing in their head is borrow checking,
but a a weak version of it. So in a way,
that's a skill that you kind of need to
start learning in order to write in at
least the the languages like C and C++.
In garbage collected languages, this is
not a skill you really need at all. Rust
forces you to learn that skill, but I
think it's a skill that makes you a
better programmer because it gives you a
better sense of how data flows through
your program and when different parts of
it are used and needed. And that gives
you in turn a sense for what is the
right decom- composition for your
program. So so
it is an additional thing to learn, but
I think it's a worthwhile thing to
learn. And certainly my experience has
been that you know, at this point I have
a little talking borrow checker in my
head,
and that one makes me better at writing
JavaScript code, Go code, C++ code
because that those that that information
that it gives me is useful in those
contexts, too.
So can you give me like like three
examples of how you are better
programmer if you have that borrow
checker in your head? Yeah, so um in in
JavaScript for example, one of the
things you want to be careful about is
um making sure that you don't ever wind
up with a memory leak in your
application. And the way you do that is
you think really carefully about when
something might be collectible by the
JavaScript runtime. And the way you do
that is you think about which things are
alive and which things have references
to them. There's no representation of
that in the JavaScript language, but it
is information that's used by the
runtime to figure out whether it's safe
to free something. So by having a sort
of mental mapping of the lifetimes of
the variables and objects in my program
in JavaScript, I make fewer mistakes
that mean that I get a memory leak in
the first place. It's not perfect
because the language isn't helping you
the way Rust is, but it does help. In
Go, it's um
it doesn't help that much for like
performance optimization, but where it
can help is for things like Go decides
whether something gets heap or stack
allocated automatically. And it does so
by look doing escape analysis, right?
Like is this this variable that I
allocate inside of a function, does it
escape outside the function? If so, I
will heap allocate it for you. I will I
will box it for you in in Rust terms.
That happens behind the scenes. Go
doesn't tell you whether it does that or
not, but the borrow checker in your head
does. Because if I return an object from
inside a function,
then in Rust that would be illegal. It
would tell you, well, this gets
destroyed when the function ends, and so
you're not allowed to return it. In Go,
that's allowed. It gets auto heap
allocated, which means that when my
borrow checker in my head goes this is
not allowed, it actually means oh, this
one gets heap allocated and I should
think about the performance
implications. Um
and I think for C and C++ it it's it's
obvious in a way. You you would not
write a correct program if you did not
have a rough borrow checker in your head
because you need to know whether
something can be accessed, when it can
be freed, whether pointers are valid,
double frees, all of that stuff, which
is borrow checking. So in Rust, when you
when you see those error messages, you
mean that they are helping you. It's not
like they they are on on your way. Not
at all. I I think I think of the Rust
compiler as being sort of instructing
you in constructing the right mental
model yourself. Um the I I heard a good
quote. I think it was from
uh Niko Matsakis, maybe, that uh Rust
gives you the headache up front. So the
idea is that you will have to fix these
bugs. The question is just would you
rather fix them at compile time or would
you rather fix them 6 months later when
your production system crashes? I know
which one I would choose. Right? But it
does mean that it takes you longer to
get to a running program because Rust
doesn't let you get away with making
those mistakes even in the early days.
We're switching topic a little bit here.
So what's the best thing about Rust
compiler?
The best thing about the Rust compiler,
I I I think it's the I think it's the
error messages. The fact that it tries
really hard
to be helpful while being concise, I
think is relatively unique.
Um and the fact that this is practiced
so rigorously across the compiler, I
think it makes a huge difference. It's
something you see where
when people try to pick up Rust for the
first time,
if they're programmers from another
language, they get like outputs from the
Rust compiler and they ignore them, and
then they wonder why did my program not
work? And so often the answer is the
compiler message actually told you.
Whereas if you're a new programmer and
you pick up Rust, you start reading the
error messages and you go, oh, great,
that's helpful, and you just do what it
tells you to do. So so I I think it's
one of those like
I don't know if it's underappreciated
because people appreciate it a lot, but
it is a hugely helpful thing especially
in the language where the learning curve
is as it is, and there are enough weird
concepts where you just need the
compiler to help you. So it's it's just
enough to read them and figure out
what's going on, you think?
So some of the time some of the error
messages also have links to these
e-codes that give you a further
explanation of a concept.
Um and sometimes you need to read those.
Sometimes you're just going to be lost,
right? It's talking about some concept
you haven't learned in your in your Rust
journey yet, and you need to go read the
book or something. Um but but very often
the compiler message is sufficiently
helpful that you can figure out what
went wrong at least, if not how to fix
it.
When I'm talking about Rust with the
developers in other programming
languages, they even if they are not
very happy about Rust itself, they
always mention Cargo, Rust package
manager. They say that it's amazing, and
they know about it at least. So is it is
it really so amazing?
So I think the answer is yes, but I
think the question becomes in relation
to what?
I think the reality is many programming
languages have bad package managers
or or build tools. And Rust tried really
hard to learn from all the lessons of
the ones that existed at the time of its
inception. And so it is maybe the best
of the ones that are there. It's not
clear to me that it's like
the ultimate build tool, that you
couldn't build anything better. But it
is very good. Like it very rarely gets
in my way. There are a bunch of things
that I think, you know, Cargo could be
better at or where Cargo's behavior is
maybe um counterintuitive. Some of the
stuff around Rust flags and
cross-compilation, for example. That
there are a bunch of like hairy depths
of Cargo that I think are sometimes
painful or it's visible that they've
evolved organically rather than as a
principled this is how we want this tool
to work. But I think overall, it's a
very good build tool. And it's a it's a
fantastic build tool compared to what
people are usually coming from. When I
read the recent state of Rust survey,
participant mentions several several big
biggest challenges when writing code in
Rust, including slow compilation time,
sub-par debugging experience, high disk
space usage.
Do you think those are valid concerns?
Is it possible to fix these issues? Any
concern that's raised by like more than
10% of respondents or more than 5% of is
a valid concern, right? And the question
becomes what can we do about them? So so
slow compile times is um
it's it's is a property of a couple of
different things. It's a property of
Rust's use of uh extensive type system,
which inherently brings some amount of
complexity to the compiler, which
results in compile time cost. Um some of
it is the fact that you have many
third-party dependencies, and so you
need this more elaborate sort of
distributed or or
topological build. Um
some of it is down to uh when you have
multiple crates, you need more like link
time optimization to make sure that if
you have cross crate dependencies, you
still get inlining, for instance. So
there's a decent amount of that kind of
complexity.
Um
the
those are hard to fix. It's it's not as
though the compiler can't get faster.
Obviously, it can. But there's been a
decent amount of work on optimizing the
Rust compiler, and so the the
low-hanging fruit, I think, is mostly
dealt with. And now it's more almost uh
more fundamental things that need to
change in order to make these things
feasible. And and not all of those come
without tradeoffs, right? Some of them
might be that you get faster compile
times, but you get a worse resulting
binary. Like a less optimized. And
even just the the difference between
Cargo build and Cargo build {dash}
{dash} release is an example of this.
Cargo build runs much faster, but you
end up with a slower binary. And there
are probably more levels of that pyramid
we could explore.
The the
large disk usage is partially related to
this, partially related to the lack of
of um automatic cleanup, although that
has now landed in Cargo, I believe. So
now it will start to prune its own uh
its own cache.
Um and it's partially related to
um monomorphization. So you end up
keeping multiple like in in the compiled
binary artifacts, you might end up end
up keeping multiple copies of data
structures and and functions just
because they're generic, and you need to
keep the generated intermediate
representation or assembly code for each
instantiation of that type or or method.
And so that obviously inflates the the
disk size.
Um
so
valid concerns? Yes.
Uh
can we do something about them?
Some of them some of them will be
harder.
I need to ask this question about uh
Rust macros. Some people say that they
are heavily overused in in the Rust
community, and they create a lot of
issues for a compiler, and even for
especially for slow compilation time
that you've mentioned. So is it really
the case? What's are there issues with
these tools or or not? Macros are macros
macros are really useful, right? They're
they're useful both in your own crate
for things like avoiding repeating
yourself a bunch, but they're also
really useful for library vendors to
give a better experience like a better
user experience, better ergonomics for
your library.
I don't know that I agree that they're
overused, maybe in some spaces, but
usually people go to a macro because
there's not an obvious way to do it
without one. And part of this is maybe
uh you know, lack of certain features in
Rust that mean that a macro is the only
way to do something, and where where
that's the case, we should try to
improve Rust itself to make that not be
necessary. But very often the users are
the ones sort of saying, I I want the
macro because I want this particular
user experience.
And so it's not like the developers are
putting in macros just for fun, it's
because that's what's needed to give
that user experience that they want to
give. I do think maybe there's a
there's an overly strong
inclination to use a procedural macro
rather than a declarative macro, because
in a way they're easier to write, right?
Just because you get to write actual
Rust code rather than the the slightly
weird macro syntax that people need to
absorb in their in their brains.
Um but partially also because they are
more powerful, and so you can do nicer
things with them uh than you're able to
do with a declarative macro. But
sometimes that's just lack of
creativity, maybe, or or lack of
knowledge in how to really massage
declarative macros.
Um the the
I think really this is a tradeoff
question, right? Because procedural
macros do come with a
um a potentially significant compile
time cost. And the question is is that
additional compile time cost worth the
improvement in ergonomics? Um and and
sometimes we probably make that tradeoff
in the wrong way as as library authors.
But I don't think the answer is to throw
them away entirely. I think some of this
is going to be figuring out how we can
make
procedural macros be faster. How do we
improve the compilation model so they're
actually feasible to use to the extent
that we want to use them. What's your
editor of choice when it comes to
writing Rust code? Oh, this one's easy.
I So I use Neovim. I've been a Vim user
for many many years, and now I use
Neovim. Um
and you know, I've I've tried IDEs up
through the years. Uh you know, the
first one I think I tried was Eclipse,
and that was that was an experience. Um
and none of them really sat right with
me, but I think it's maybe because I
have a very terminal-focused workflow.
So on my computer, I only ever really
have two windows open, and it's my
browser and my terminal, and nothing
else. Everything happens in the context
of those two programs. As a result, it
feels very weird to me to have an
additional window open that is my UI,
because so often I want to do things on
the terminal, and if my editor is in my
terminal, it's very easy to switch out
of. So like the number of times I quit
and reopen my editor in a day is like
all the time, like
several times an hour, because I exit, I
run some command, and then I enter my
editor again, and that's fine.
Uh and that's the workflow that's like
built into my brain and my hands. So
it's very hard to get out of. Trying to
move to an IDE,
I mean, I know I can get a terminal in
the IDE, but that's a
subpar terminal, right? I want my
full-screen terminal with the full TUI,
and like everything is is is terminal.
Uh and so then having an editor inside
my terminal makes more sense to my brain
somehow.
Um although I acknowledge that IDEs have
a a richer graphical space in which to
render your environment, which gives you
more expressive power. But I just
haven't found it to be a drawback. Like
I I haven't found things that I just
cannot do in my current editor that I
would like to do. And that could be lack
of um
lack of exposure, right? Like if I
really tried an IDE for a month, then
I would discover all these things that I
can't go back to a terminal editor for.
But at least at the moment, that that's
just not a need that I have. Have you
ever tried RustRover, JetBrains IDE for
Rust? I think I tried it for a solid 30
minutes. So no, I think is the real
answer to that. And and again, it's
because there's nothing that draws me to
them. Like I there's nothing I feel like
I'm missing in my current experience.
How many lines do you have in your
Neovim config?
Uh it's not that bad. It's um like 500
lines, maybe.
Um but this is like 500 lines of that
includes defining all of the plugins
that I want to use and their
configuration. So it's like
that that is a fairly decent size, but
it's not as though it's manageable. It
used to be in Vim script, and then it
was a pain. And then recently I rewrote
it to be in Lua, and now it's actually
decently readable. Do you think that uh
Rust as a language uh is a good fit for
general software development pipeline?
Like these modern CI/CD practices, like
some cloud infrastructure.
There are some things that
can be a little annoying, things like um
if your CI is set up to capture your all
of your test runs, like think JUnit, for
example, then you can't do that with
Cargo test. You have to use something
like Cargo next test, which has a way to
emit JUnit information. And some of it
So so some of it is like not as native
as maybe we would like it to be.
Um
and there are other bits like setting up
test coverage requires figuring out like
you need to use something like Cargo LVM
LVM cov or something. So there's there's
certainly a bit of you need to find the
right tool to get those things to work.
Um but that's already the case in other
languages, too. It's just that the tools
are more established or more like
already built into platforms. Um so I
think there's like there's a delta here
of we could make the experience better,
and I think we should, but I don't think
it's like fundamentally lacking the
capabilities for for most of the stuff.
And what do you think about using Rust
alongside other languages? Like is it
does it have a good connection to them?
Depends on the other language. Rust is
fairly friendly to to to foreign
languages, right? So um
you see this a lot in the Python space,
for example, and in the Ruby space,
where they increasingly now write native
modules in Rust instead of C and C++
because it's all just a C ABI anyway,
and so you can just write it in Rust and
then use use it the same way from from
Ruby and Python.
You see it in the
um
the C and C++ world, where you can
pretty easily use a Rust module, and you
can pretty easily use a C module from
Rust. The C++ and Rust compatibility is
still
I'd say in in its young phase, right?
Like there there's more we can do there
to make that more ergonomic. Stuff like
CXX helps a lot here, the the CXX crate.
That feels like a space where there's
room for it to get a lot better.
I know um was it last year that uh there
was sort of an investment into the Rust
Foundation specifically to improve this,
and I think that is a good investment
but I because I think that's somewhere
where
um it's not like the integration there
is worse than it is for other languages,
but it's that it feels like it could be
better because the languages have some
similarities that it feels like we can
make use of. I think interfacing with
things like Java, it's less clear. Like
having to use JNI, for example, is
you can do it, but it it's a little bit
painful. It comes with overhead. Um so
so that one I think is
workable but not the best. But in a way,
the answer I just gave is
Rust actually interoperates with a lot
of things, right? If you took Java as
the example here, trying to get Java to
cooperate with Ruby, for example, or or
Ruby Ruby is maybe a bad example cuz you
have JRuby, but with Python is probably
more painful because you now you have
two runtimes that are competing for the
the the the ownership of resources.
Several years ago, Graydon Hoare, which
is
um original creator of Rust,
he he wrote
blog post with this title, "The Rust I
Wanted Has No Future."
It looks like there was some engineering
dream originally,
and now Rust is a mainstream language.
Do you think that uh
Rust is missing something because of
this transformation?
I think first of all, that that article
is really good and people should read it
if they haven't. The kinds of points
that Graydon brings up there are not so
much
um
things that he thinks are wrong with the
Rust programming language. It's just
that if if he were like the benevolent
dictator for life of Rust, choices he
would have made that is not what Rust
ended up making.
Uh and as he acknowledges in the post,
some of those are probably for the
better, where the the community made a
better choice than he could have done
based on at the time the conviction he
had himself. And then there are some
things that he just disagrees with, and
there are some things where
fundamentally there's a there's a
trade-off, and he prefers one trade-off,
and the community ended up preferring
the other. And
which trade-off was more correct is like
anyone's guess, but the fact that Rust
has seen mainstream adoption to the
scale that it has suggests that many of
the trade-offs were made made in the
right way. So there's there are some
things where you might end up with a
cleaner language from like a programming
language perspective, but that a cleaner
language is not the thing that gets you
adoption, right? Sometimes you actually
want to favor the more complicated thing
because it gives you more flexibility in
the programs you can write or the
performance you can achieve, uh and
you're willing to pay the complexity
price.
Uh and so again, like Graydon talks
about this in that blog post of places
where he would have made a different
call, but that's not it's not clear that
would have made a better language. It
would just made a different language. If
you see something going on with uh Rust
and you are not happy with some some of
the decisions, what what would you do?
Well, so a lot of the discussion about
Rust happens in the open. It happens in
in RFCs. It happens in in pull requests
and in in issue tracker things. It
happens in the
um
the Rust lang Zulip. Uh it happens in
the Rust users and internals forums.
There are a lot of sources to monitor if
you want to keep track of everything,
but in general, like when I come across
either a feature that I care about a bug
that I'm missing or um you know, a uh a
feature that's announced and where I'm
interested, I tend to go find the
underlying thread and I subscribe to it
over time to to monitor it for
are there things here where I might feel
strongly about something? And then
there'll be some discussions where
I see the feature coming and I go, "I
don't think this is the right call." And
then I will jump into that thread with,
you know, my reasoning for why I think
it should be different.
But it's not as though, you know, I go
into those threads and then have the
authority to just decide. That's not how
it works. Usually, like the people who
put in the time are the ones who get to
decide. Like let's take Cargo as an
example. Um I'm not on the Cargo team.
I'm not spending most of my time
contributing to Cargo. I have strong
opinions on build systems, and I can
provide those opinions and provide as
much, you know, um evidence or
experience into those opinions as I can,
but I don't get to make the choice
because I haven't
devoted the time and effort needed to
get to be the person who decides. And so
that means that sometimes they'll make
decisions that I disagree with, but
that's okay. That's how a community
works is that one person doesn't get to
just decide. But in general, do you like
the the way Rust is taking?
Like about the whole evolution of Rust,
are you happy with it? I I think Rust is
broadly speaking on a good trajectory. I
don't I don't feel like I've seen lots
of very objectionable decisions. Um you
know, there obviously pieces here and
there where I disagree with one call or
another, or where I disagree with maybe
with prioritization where I think this
thing should have been done before that
thing. But but I think overall, it's not
like I feel a a deep sense of like the
language has gone astray, not at all. I
I think it's I think it's on a very good
path. What is the the the leading
leading force in in Rust development? Is
it community or maybe big corporations
these days? I I don't think big
corporations actually have that much
sway over the direction of Rust.
Certainly, if you look at the way the
the AWS Rust team worked, um that was
very much a
fund people to work on Rust and do what
you think is right for the language. And
then there was some amount of like they
needed to argue for why these priorities
also mattered to AWS for AWS to continue
paying them, but it wasn't really AWS
says you must do these things as much as
it was, you know, very senior people on
the Rust team saying, "This is what we
believe we should be doing and why." And
then articulating that to AWS and saying
and then going, "Okay, great. That that
seems reasonable. Go do it." Um and I
think it's the same with like Meta, for
example, which used Rust extensively but
also contribute to Rust. I I don't see
them deeply affecting the trajectory of
Rust. A lot more of that resides with
with the individual teams. And there are
some of the team leads in the Rust uh in
the Rust the larger Rust team that
are paid by companies, but
at least the ones I've interacted with,
I don't get the sense that they're doing
so based on a sort of steering from
their company. Quite to the contrary,
the reason they were hired was because
they had a strong sense of judgment to
begin with and a strong technical
capability. And I actually think
what I've seen so far, I would expect
that if they felt a strong steer from
the company that employs them, they
would rather either leave their team
lead position or leave the company than
allow that steering to to really take
foot. So I'm I'm not really seeing a
sort of commercial steer of Rust to any
any significant degree. If Rust
disappears tomorrow,
what would the world lose? Well, it
depends how literally you take your your
your prompt here, but I
I don't think there's an obvious
replacement for Rust. Um I think we have
a lot of non-obvious replacements. We
have languages like D, which never
really took off cuz it was a bit of a
pain to work with. We have languages
like Zig, which are
like Zig is very good at basically the
subset of Rust where you write unsafe,
but it doesn't really have a safe
version to capture the the places where
Rust can actually buy you additional
safety. And so it would fill maybe the
unsafety niche of a being a better C or
C++ in that space, but it wouldn't fill
the safety part. Um
and we we have languages like Julia,
which tries to be a sort of allows you
to write high-performance code, but it
also is pretty safe and and stuff, but
wouldn't really fill the like, "Can you
run this on cars?" You probably wouldn't
run Julia there. And so I think we would
be left with a a gap, a vacuum that
needed to be filled by something. And
maybe that's an extension to an existing
language, but I I
I don't see what would go there. Maybe
the closest one would be something like
Swift, um but Swift has the problem that
um
it it favors more more things at run
time than compile time. Uh and it's also
very strongly controlled by one
commercial entity, which I think is to
the detriment of wide adoption. Like it
would be hard probably to adopt Swift in
aerospace, for example, because the
language is so tightly controlled by
Apple. And I think this is one of the
features that Rust has is that it's not
as tied to one vendor. If Rust
disappears tomorrow,
what would you personally lose?
I would lose a community, I think. Like
for for me, the
the work stuff
matters less. Uh I I think I could be a
programmer in any language then it would
be fine. I think I could be an educator
in other languages, too. But what I
would lose is is that community of
people who care about this intersection
of things that Rust tries to give, and
that
are interested in taking on a
programming language that is harder in
some ways
because they care. They think it's
interesting. They think it's fun. And I
don't want to lose that community.
I think that was the last question.
Uh but uh by the way, you mentioned
your your book Rust for Rustaceans, and
we happen to have it in our library in
our JetBrains library.
So I would like to ask you to sign it
for us. Of course, I'd be happy to. Now,
the interesting thing is you have to
decide which page you want the signature
on because there's a big debate in the
community about whether the signature
should be on the first page or whether
it should be next to the name.
Let's make it next to your name. Next to
the name. Next to the name.
>> All
>> All right.
So, I also um I number all of the
signatures.
So, that every signature is unique. So,
this is uh book number 120.
That's amazing. That's amazing. Thank
you. Thank you so much.