Content Collections
Organize your Markdown and MDX with built-in TypeScript type-safety and frontmatter validation.
Astro 6.1
Available now!
Astro powers the world's fastest marketing sites, blogs, e-commerce websites, and more.
Get Started
npm create astro@latest
Copied!
Used by the largest companies around the world:
What is Astro? Astro is a JavaScript web framework optimized for building fast, content-driven
websites.
Astro improves website performance by rendering components on the server, sending lightweight HTML to the browser with zero unnecessary JavaScript overhead.
Astro was designed to work with your content, no matter where it lives. Load data from your file system, external API, or your favorite CMS.
Extend Astro with your favorite tools. Bring your own JavaScript UI components, CSS libraries, themes, integrations, and more.
Best-In-Class Performance Astro Islands
Islands optimize your website like no other web framework can. Leverage Astro's unique page load performance to improve conversion rates, Core Web Vitals, and SEO.
% of real-world sites with good Core Web Vitals
Astro Core Web Vitals Passing
66%
WordPress Core Web Vitals Passing
48%
Gatsby Core Web Vitals Passing
47%
Next.js Core Web Vitals Passing
30%
Nuxt Core Web Vitals Passing
28%
View the full dataset · Based on real-world performance data from HTTP Archive and the Chrome UX Report.
Maximum Flexibility Zero Lock-in
Astro supports every major UI framework. Bring your existing components and take advantage of Astro's optimized client build performance.
Everything you need Fully Featured
Astro comes with everything you need to build a modern website. Need more? Extend Astro with integrations.
Organize your Markdown and MDX with built-in TypeScript type-safety and frontmatter validation.
Astro only ships the JavaScript you need and automatically strips away the rest for a faster website.
Seamlessly morph, fade, and swipe across pages with built-in, browser-native View Transition APIs.
Eliminate layout shift and serve optimized, modern image formats with Astro’s built-in components and utilities.
Bring your favorite UI frameworks and component libraries with Astro's flexible island architecture.
React Vue Svelte Angular Preact Solid Qwik
Astro’s flexible routing system lets you understand your site’s structure at a glance.
Wrap incoming requests with custom logic like authentication, logging, or data fetching.
Write type-safe backend functions that you can call directly from your frontend JavaScript client code.
One-line configuration for Netlify, Vercel, AWS, or your favorite hosting platform.
Node.js Cloudflare Vercel Netlify SST Deno AWS
If you know HTML, you already know enough to write your first Astro component. Build powerful server components everyone on your team understands.
Optimize page loading with intelligent automatic prefetching. Pick from the built-in presets or tailor a strategy perfect for your site.
Integrate Astro’s official MCP server and context files with your favorite AI tools for a best-in-class development experience.
Avoid common configuration mistakes with a built-in API to manage your environment variables.
Extend your development environment with apps and integrations for the built-in development toolbar.
Ecosystem Themes
Get started faster with a pre-built website theme for Astro. Customize it to make it your own.
Astro Partner Agencies Get professional Astro support
Find the right team for your project with an Astro Partner Agency. From landing pages to e-commerce, get the expert assistance you need.
Astro today
Get Started
npm create astro@latest
Copied!