People are skeptical that large
established, highly technical, highly
capable engineering organizations can
deploy AI at scale and get any effect.
But I think you've proven it's possible.
>> It's not only possible, it's adapt or
die. It's just been such a huge
superpower for the team.
>> How many engineers are we talking about
here?
>> Thousand plus.
>> So we're not messing around here.
>> The company tried to adopt other AI
tools and we saw this uptick in
adoption. People opened it up, checked
the box, did kind of like a hello world
thing, but it didn't stick. My biggest
thing is, how do I make this damn thing
stick? Because there's something here.
>> I do think that it's really important
when you're doing this organizational
transformation that you have a single
person with incredible conviction at the
leadership level who is also hands on
the metal.
>> Show the engineers, not just tell. And
the worst thing any leader could do is
just be like, I decree you must use AI.
Come on, no one's going to listen to
you.
Welcome back to How I AI. I'm Claire
Bell, product leader and AI obsessive
here on a mission to help you build
better with these new tools. Today we
have Chinten Therakia, senior director
of engineering at Coinbase. And he's
going to show us, yes, it is possible to
drive AI adoption and higher velocity in
an engineering organization of thousands
of engineers. He's also going to show us
the new expectations for engineering
managers and engineering leaders, which
is less meetings and more code. Let's
get to it. This episode is brought to
you by work OS. AI has already changed
how we work. Tools are helping teams
write better code, analyze customer
data, and even handle support tickets
automatically. But there's a catch.
These tools only work well when they
have deep access to company systems.
Your co-pilot needs to see your entire
codebase. Your chatbot needs to search
across internal docs. And for enterprise
buyers, that raises serious security
concerns. That's why these apps face
intense IT scrutiny from day one. To
pass, they need secure authentication,
access controls, audit logs, the whole
suite of enterprise features. Building
all that from scratch, it's a massive
lift. That's where Work OS comes in.
Work OS gives you drop-in APIs for
enterprise features so your app can
become enterprise ready and scale up
market faster. Think of it like Stripe
for enterprise features. OpenAI,
Perplexity, and Cursor are already using
work OS to move faster and meet
enterprise demands. Join them and
hundreds of other industry leaders at
workos.com.
Start building today. Chinton, thank you
so much for joining. What I love about
what we're going to talk about today is
we spend so much time talking about the
individual vibe coder or the
non-technical person becoming a software
engineer and still people are skeptical
that large established highly technical,
highly capable engineering organizations
can deploy AI at scale and get any
effect. There's still so much
skepticism, but I think you've proven
it's possible and you're hopefully going
to show us the way.
>> I I think it's uh not only possible,
it's, you know, adapt or die. Um like it
it's uh it's just been such a huge
superpower for the team and we've gotten
so much efficiency out it and and
there's just like ways to approach it.
Um, I was I think I was reading a tweet
yesterday uh just about a very very long
story at Microsoft and or someone like
pulling co-pilot in to their
organization and it was like just a fun
tweet of just like yep we're going to
make graph go up and to the right but
like the actual adoption wasn't good and
and so like I've been spending the last
year just absolutely obsessing about it
and you can do it people can do it. So,
how how can you do it? Because, you
know, how many engineers are we we
talking about here?
>> A thousand plus.
>> Yeah. So, we're not we're not messing
around here. This is messing around.
This is a real this is a real team
working on real products who know what
they're doing, who have built great
software. And so, where did you start
either culturally, from a product
perspective, from a tools perspective?
>> So, I think a lot of it actually just
started around this time last year. um
we had some changes uh to align like the
product I'm responsible for and a big
part of that was effectively like
rewriting the entire product from
scratch uh from uh turning it from a
self-custody wallet to actually a social
consumer app that just happens to use
crypto and you know we're using React
Native um but we made a lot of decisions
for a self-custody wallet but to become
a consumer app you got to like rethink
everything that was one, two, we needed
to do it in like 6 to9 months. So, we
were going headto-head with like the big
social players out there that have
multi,000 person teams uh that have a
10-year head start. And we were really
trying to just do something big and new
and crazy, like absolutely just crazy.
And and uh a big part of this is like
how do we rewrite the app
so that it is the best possible app out
there like consumer grade and do it in
this insane timeline. And the team is
cracked. They're amazing. But like you
know we we be we became a smaller team
as a result of of some of these changes.
And so I started just looking at like
ways to accelerate and and you know like
I don't know my my team knows me well
and if if you know me like I obsess
about efficiency uh and I think that's
like so critical to like make teams
accelerate their velocity um but in in
in ways that make sense uh for tool and
using the tool so around this time I
think cursor had come out with their
sort of initial release it was around
like November of last year we we all
tried it right 2020 24 and it kind of
sucked. And it it's not like I love
cursor. I love cursor. Uh the models
weren't there. The just the models
weren't there. Like they the models
couldn't even you know really write a
unit test. Right. Well, and you know
you're an engineer. Um
and you understand like once once an
engineer tries a tool and and they're
like h this is not so good like it's
very quickly and very easy to write it
off, right? It happens. And so we we
kind of went through this like trough of
sorrow of just like okay god damn it AI
tools are not here the models aren't
ready what are we going to do and you
know for even a year prior to this event
like the company tried to adopt other AI
tools like GitHub copilot and we saw
this like uptick in adoption like people
opened it up checked the box did kind of
like a hello world thing but it didn't
stick, right? And and like my my biggest
thing is how do I make this damn thing
stick, right? Because there's something
here, right? And my mental model was
just always
the models will the foundational LLM
will always get better and it's like
going to the gym. You need to go and
build your reps and try it and that's
okay. And the cost of doing it is like
nothing. It's just a little bit of waste
of time. We're not worried about compute
right now because it's so early. And so
like from basically January all the way
to like March or April of 2025,
I just changed the the mindset and the
mentality. I I was like in cursor every
single day, every single hour of the
day. And I was like, how do I make this
work, right? Like
you know, it was great because I was
writing code again. It was great because
you know it was unlocking all these like
use cases like we were doing interviews
like interviewing candidates and and
just like I don't want to necessarily
write up all the notes right that takes
a long time but I intuitively I like I
know I've assessed right so I would use
it for like tactical day-to-day
paperwork kind of things to accelerate
me uh but also from like a coding
perspective just pick up bugs and be
like hey let's try this right what's
going to happen what can I learn what
are the tips and tricks to like show the
engineers, not just tell. And the worst
thing any leader could do is just be
like, I decree you must use AI. Like
come on, no one's going to listen to
you. I have to empathize with this
because I also running a large like
multiund person engineering organization
you know was experiencing even early
versions of these tools and had such
innate conviction
>> that it would of course transform how we
did work like that was very obvious to
me I don't know it's obvious because of
experience or obvious because it was
just obvious but
>> but then you know you just had these
experiences as leaders especially in the
you know maybe 12 months ago, one
engineer tries it, doesn't work. It's
not just that engineer throws it away.
It's everybody else says, "Well, I
think, you know, I trust their opinion
and if they say it's not going to work,
>> it's not going to work for me." And I do
think that it's really important when
you're doing this organizational
transformation that you have a single
person with incredible conviction at the
leadership level who is also hands on
the metal. Because until you can say,
"Well, I understand it didn't work for
that, but it worked for these three
things." Or I actually figured out how
to make it work for that because we
tried A, B, and C. I think it's just the
only way. You cannot be in philosophy.
You cannot be in, you know, someday in
the future you figure it out. You have
to actually get back to it. And then I
think like bonus points, so many of us
in engineering leadership have like been
pushed away from from coding.
>> I know. I have to get back in it. And
I'm like, I just want to code again.
Like, give me some joy. Give me some
time.
>> Yeah. And so I think that's a benefit as
well.
>> And you you have to show not tell. And
and so I did. And like I think what I
learned very quickly is like, okay,
there's something here. There's there's
a there, right? And then we just started
picking off like one or two use cases
and and the best way to get to an
engineer is just give them the tools so
they stop doing the work and so
that they can build the stuff they love.
Right. Right. And so like we would just
like pick off unit tests. We'd pick off
like linting, all these like little
things that just like paper cut and suck
the soul out of you as a builder, but
the engineers and you know like the team
just wants to move faster. The team
wants to build better things. And so we
started leaning into like cursor rules
for some of these things. Even the
simplest thing I I remember like I think
I remember my aha moment which was like
popping in some bug report working
through it and then I didn't think about
it. I just did it. I was like just
create a draft PR. Here's the ticket.
Here's kind of the PR like and you know
here's the PR description I want. And I
just did it and I was like I never need
to remember get status get rebase. Like
why is anyone doing this anymore? like
what are we doing? And it took the funny
thing is it took some convincing of me
to the the team like guys just type
create draft a PR like create a draft PR
and it'll be done for you and like like
well you know I kind of have my
workflow. It's like cool cool I get your
workflow you can modify you can use
cursor rules it's okay.
>> Like no one's getting bonus points for
memorizing git commands.
>> Exactly. Exactly. And and so like we
chipped away and we put in a bunch of
rules like cursor rules and that that
helps so much. And then like we had I I
was like sensing I was like okay I have
I have enough like folks on the team
that are like yep this is unlocking
stuff. And they would post in the team
channel like look what we had literally
a channel called cursor wins. And like
everyone was just posting in the channel
like I just did like you know 20 unit
tests and then went and had a coffee.
This was great. like I love it. And so
people started seeing it in action and
then we hit this like point. I was like,
"Okay, how do I speedrun now the whole
team? There's a there's a little bit of
conviction here." So I just and I
remember this like I think I had landed
I was going to the east coast. I landed
um for my flight, got into an Uber,
hopped on like an entire team all hands
like speedrun we call it. It was like
basically cursor speedrun. And I was in
the Uber using cursor putting up a PR.
And the goal of the speedrun was every
single person would just pick up the
most trivial thing. It could be like
copy change, a bug, whatever, and just
put up the PR. And we ended up, I think
in 15 minutes, I think a 100 people had
joined. In 15 minutes, we ended up
putting up like 70 PRs. And we broke
GitHub, too, which was cool because we
learned like our infrastructure needed
improvement. So I want to I want to
pause real quick because again how I AI
a little bit about tactical techniques
and you've used a couple that I have
used which is like one high conviction
leader with hands on the metal that just
says like we just got to do this access
to tools focus on toil and is very
important. You called out linting you
called out tests. Another one I would
call out is like design debt where you
know front end engineers or designers
have just lived with parts of the app
they hate.
>> Yes. Um, that is another really great
one. But and then and then a a shared
Slack channel. And one like, you know,
riff I would make on your cursor wins
channel is we made ours wins and losses.
And so we were very clear like just post
what you did and when it worked and when
it didn't
>> because when it didn't, people would be
like, "Oh yeah, but you could try XYZ or
I have a cursor rule for you or
whatever." But what I haven't heard that
I want people to just like perk their
ears on and pay attention to is this
like idea of a PR speedrun which is like
do a time down time everybody boot up
whatever tool and just speedrun some
fixes because how much conviction does
an or have to get going from look I've
been there like the the doldrums of like
quarterly planning and this will be in
four months and blah blah blah blah blah
to just like we just got 70 PRs that
we've sitting on out out the door in in
30 minutes. I just that has to be such a
transformational moment for an edge
team.
>> You know, there was a success rate on
those on uh merging those PRs and like
it was just like this is possible
there like everyone's eyes lit up
>> and it was really sort of a death to
status updates long live building
moment,
>> right?
>> Yeah. And and this is the other thing I
want to call out because I think you all
have a really special culture there. But
so often we in product engineering
design orgs get like really wrapped
around the axle on like the rules of
engagement like well I'm not allowed to
build it unless the product manager says
it's important or like I can't really
make that decision about what color that
button is because design hasn't weighed
in. And like I do think these moments
where you just break all the rules and
you're like guess what remember you can
just
>> ship code. who can just
>> you can just ship them both like put AI
aside. AI maybe enables it and makes it
like a much less costly you know um
expense but like just doing that is so
powerful for velocity and for I also
think for quality like people just take
more radical ownership of things. Um so
I'm going to 100% steal this.
>> You I mean I want everyone to steal it
like you know I I really like the way
you just put it right. This is a moment
where we should be breaking the rules
because AI is breaking the rules for us
and if we don't adapt to how like we can
use it, we're toast, right? And and we
is like a very collective like whoever's
not adapting is going to fall behind
kind of thing, right? And what all of
this like ends up unlocking is
is like the reduction in coordination
overhead. So like one thing I've been
obsessing about a lot, it's like, okay,
cool, great, good job on the speedrun.
Yes, we got a lot of stuff done. We
started then seeing those wins more and
more people adopted. Brian then, you
know, you were sharing some information
with Brian like how adoption is going
and then we just did a companywide
speedrun. And at that moment, like there
were like 800 engineers on the call and
we ended up pushing up for like 3 400
PRs in 30 minutes. And yes, again, we
broke GitHub and that's fine. That's
good. Like this is pressure testing. We
should be designing ourselves to break
the rules, right? But the thing I've
been obsessing about is like how do you
how do you measure any of this like in
terms of output, right? There's there's
this like tension where okay the more AI
we use well does that count as a
replacement for people and like I'm in
the camp of absolutely not. AI is an
accelerant, right? AI is an accelerant
because there will always be more work
to like to do, right? And so the way I
think about it, at least for for my team
and and what I'm pushing across the
board is really like
time from ticket to when the change
lands to the user. Like that actually
encompasses every single piece you need,
right? And today like even if you go
from like
ticket backlogs and stuff like that,
like there's oh do I should I like like
you said, should I prioritize this? Is
this important? Let me ask my PM or let
me ask the pro the pro program product
manager, project manager, whatever. And
now the whole team like fast forward
from back then to now, we just see
someone give us feedback and literally
within like seconds we're like clock
like we built this internal bot. I'm
excited to show you. And within seconds
like the PR is being authored, right? an
agent picks it up and within seconds
that feedback is like acted on. And so
we crunch the time to action, the time
then from ticket to the the PR being
ready for review. Then the review time
like all my dubs complain review times
take too long. We found some solutions
actually. I think we were doing average
of like
150 hours like was the cycle time for a
PR review because there was so much. We
reduced it by 10x down to like 15 hours
or so roughly. And then the last piece
is like from that merge, how do you do
like that OTAA update and you squeeze
that whole cycle again and then the team
is like just literally unlocked with
sheer velocity.
>> Yeah.
>> And then you get stuff in front of
customers. Yes.
>> And then you have the velocity of like
actual market ideas.
>> Yes. And you get that feedback and like
the the we're obsessing also about how
fast can we take like in real life
feedback.
>> Yeah.
>> And then actually just fix it right then
and there. I think I think there was
another aha moment. I was on a call with
with like a user of our product, right?
And they're like, "Hey, it'd be cool if
you like changed X, Y, and Z." And like
literally while I was on the call, I
just put up a PR and pushed it. And
they're like before the call ended, it
was 30 minutes. I was like just you know
reload it's fixed.
>> Okay before we quer this into an hour of
you know like two two end product
leaders being like just ship really fast
we'll go into the merits of reducing PR
cycle time all that fun stuff. Let's
actually show a couple things you built
because I think the kind of meta
commentary on like you can do this in
engineering organizations. There are
steps to it. There are measures you can
take I think are things that everyone
can learn from but you also have been
building. So let's talk about how you
used actually cursor to drive how you
drove this into the organization and
understand adoption of AI.
>> Yeah, for sure. Um, I think a lot of it
just comes like from honest curiosity
and figuring out um, where the
bottlenecks are like why aren't folks
adopting, how are people using it, etc.,
etc. I want to show you like I think the
the kind of crazy thing I'm about to
walk you through is like I just got this
hairbrained idea. Cursor has like great
analytics, right? And so you go to the
admin panel, you look at the analytics
and a you know awesomely they let you
download it into CSV. I was like, what
if I just use cursor to figure out what
my team is doing in terms of using
cursor but not in just like from a
vanity metric point of view of like
lines of code committed by AI. I think
that's like kind of misleading actually
digging more into um how they're using
cursor and how do we sort of like
replicate power users. So let's see uh
we have some some data. It's in this
file here. Uh, and it's just like a
standard CSV from Cursor that you can
like download from their their site. Um,
like your admin panel. And then there's
also here a bunch of different sort of
fields. Um, so like accepted lines, chat
lines, chat lines deleted, um, various
like data elements. But you know, one
thing like I just sort of started with I
want to understand the usage of cursor,
right?
And I already know um we have like light
users all the way to power users. And
one of the things I really wanted to
figure out was like what are the natural
clusters of usage? Can you find them
across the team? What is the best way to
cohort them?
Right? And I'm just going to pick up the
standard analytics file here. Maybe pop
in another one here. And then I love
Opus High. I also love plan mode because
it gives you a chance to like see what
it's thinking through. So we can let
this cook and see what it comes back
with. And what I want to call out here
for engineering managers or engineering
leaders is this is the kind of
quantitative analysis that we would all
have loved to be able to do across a
bunch of engineering metrics at at some
point, right? Like how often do we get
asked by the board or our boss like
what's velocity, what cycle time, which
of our engineers are super, you know,
like our are really on the far edge of
the curve in terms of efficiency, how
are our junior engineers ramping into
the repo, all that kind of stuff. And
that kind of analysis is actually really
ownorous and hard to get at because of
the structure of the data and the nature
of the analysis. And so what I love
about just LLMs in general and in
particular using something like cursor
is you can get to really nuanced
cohorting analysis on human behavior and
human analytics as a manager in a way
that I think has been really challenging
to do before.
>> Yeah, I totally agree. And like the
beautiful thing is now with MCPs with
data accessibility
like I think of tools like cursor as
just my daily operating system. If I
have a question, it doesn't matter if
it's technical or not. I just go into
cursor and ask it. Um, and so it's like
super super powerful that way. Okay, so
it's asking me a little bit about like
what outputs do I want? I do want to
enrich CSV. Um, just it makes it easier.
I do want a static dashboard just for
fun. Like I'm not really trying to
create a brand new dashboard right now.
But my main goal here is just honestly
honestly like find natural cohorts,
right? Um, and so it's going to kind of
try to do light, moderate, active,
power, super user. It's going to look at
line suggested, so volume,
sophistication, agent mode, model
preference, acceptance rate, and breath.
What features are they using? I'll spit
out, you know, a CSV dashboard. It'll
likely generate a Python script, too,
that I can reuse. So, I'm just going to
kick off build mode. While that's
cooking, I do want to just maybe bop
over to like it's going to create all
this stuff in Python, create the scripts
for me. Awesome. But we can look here at
some of the the information, right? So
like this is all sort of random made up
data. It's like sample data. But what it
did was in a previous run it looked at
all the data, generated the Python
script, which is great, super simple.
And it sort of just did some like
highlevel status metrics like AI code
percentage again on all this madeup
data, AI lines per week, composer lines.
This is when you're using the agent mode
in cursor or tab lines, right? When
you're hitting tab. Uh one one of my
team members actually got the cool
cursor tab award, which is which is
great. Great. And so it sort of breaks
all this down. And then what it really
segmented around was like agentheavy
users, which is folks who really lean
into agent usage. There's also tab heavy
users. This is like a different cohort.
they just lean into tab usage and they
they maybe want really just a bit more
control and maybe haven't gotten yet
used to like how to let go with an
agent. Uh you have balance users that
try both and then you have sort of like
maybe cursor curious or maybe not cursor
pill or you know llm pled right now and
so I generated this whole script. It's
great. And now let me show you sort of a
bit more analysis I want to do here. So
let's do this. Run the analysis on I
have um a sample user set
and generate the HTML as well and let's
we're actually like this is sort of the
output of the analysis script that was
generated in Python which is already
cooking in parallel.
>> Got it. So what you've done here is
you've taken some raw data from cursor.
you've asked one kind of agent to do a
cohort-based analysis and generate a
enriched CSV essentially with some data
and then you're kicking off another
agent to actually do the analysis on
that and generate sort of an HTML view
of it so you can visualize the data.
>> That's right. That's right. What it did
was the Python script that was
generated, right? It found these natural
cohorts, these natural cohorts of super
user, regular user, power user, light
inactive. Again, this is just honestly
sample data um but based on like real
information, real schema, real cursor um
data fields. And it came up with like
70% are agent heavy in the sample data,
20% are minimal, 4% are balanced. We
have some room to improve here on the
sample, right? Like not enough people
are using it. Um, and so it does a bit
of a breakdown which I kind of like, you
know, kind of a recap of metrics. Yeah,
we have a lot of lines of code in this
data. We have 520 power users. Again,
madeup names, but like this person is
crushing it. I want to know what this
madeup person, Gabriel Diaz, is doing,
right? Awesome thing here. It generated
a little uh visual dashboard. Nothing
fancy. something just really simple to
look at, right? Total lines, composer
lines, tap completion, a little bit of
breakdown,
some structuring on the tiers and usage,
right? But what I really kind of want to
understand is like what is Gabriel Diaz
doing, right? This madeup user who's
just like crushing it.
>> Yep. How about based on the data
generate guidance for each user cohort
what you know they should do to advance
and graduate to super user I'm looking
for explicit guidance effectively like I
want to turn this into some type of
playbook right so let's let this cook
and then in parallel what I also want to
do is I like visuals and there's
something intuitive here where like as
we look at the data itself
right We we know that the like the path
to this super user over here. It's it's
not like you go inactive to light to
regular to power to super. We know it's
not linear like that. Right. Right.
There may be like forks from light to
straight to power user. Regular user
seems to be like balanced on the taring,
but what I want to know is like what are
the special things these folks are doing
and how do I sort of shift the curve,
right? And so I'm also going to throw
another question in parallel like create
a mermaid diagram uh for all the
different sort of paths a user can take
from light to power. And it's I'm
assuming it's not linear. And let's just
see what this cooks up to.
Okay. This is really working hard.
Really working hard.
>> Opus 4 five.
>> Yeah. Opus is Opus is really working
hard on this. But um yeah, let's let's
see where it goes. Well, you know what's
really interesting? I'll give you a a a
shorter hack on this one. So, I think
what this is generating is like an HTML
playbook that you could share out that
has has things. I will tell you what I
would do in this use case and I've done
this a couple times um with c like
customer QBRs is I say write a slack
post that I can put in my engineering
channel on a couple of these stats and
you know how we can get people to move
from A to B and it'll write me like a a
short little Slack post. So, I I love
this idea of going from something like a
CSV to a really deep analysis to an HTML
like visualization to like three bullet
points I can send in Slack. Yeah.
>> And as a manager, each one of those
steps would have taken just forever to
do. And now you can get them all done in
cursor.
>> Yeah. You know, that is that's like kind
of the awesome thing is the power of
something like a workflow markdown file.
>> Yeah.
>> Is huge. It's absolutely huge. And it ex
it's exactly like the thing you're
describing here.
>> Meet Rovo, your AI teammate, connecting
knowledge, people, and workflows so
teams can work smarter and move faster.
It helps people find answers, make
decisions, and automate work securely
and with context through search, chat,
agents, and studio. Rovo runs on the
teamwork graph, Atlassian's intelligent
layer that unifies data across your
first and third party apps, so no
knowledge gets left behind. And you
always get personalized AI insights from
day one. And the best news, it's already
built into Jira Confluence and Jira
Service Management paid subscriptions.
So the power of Robo is already at your
fingertips. Know the feeling when AI
turns from tool to teammate? If you
robo, you know. Discover Robo. AI that
knows your business. Powered by
Atlassian. Get started at rovo.com.
That's rov as in victory o.com.
>> Let's see. Let's see what it came up
with. Right. And like you know the the
thing is like no one should expect all
this information is going to be perfect.
Like if anyone is thinking oh wow what
is going to be my job as a leader if
cursor can do all all of this it's like
well your job as a leader is to lead
right and to make change and and impact
and this accelerates them so inactive
users like yeah kind of true you haven't
installed you haven't really used AI
features yet the hardest part is getting
started so I kind of like this it gives
like just some very simple prompts try
the agent mode for your next task
something very very simple. Something
like wait try a tab completion flow. I
kind of feel like the the LLM really
wanted to just turn this into a game
like a little like a little quest or
something.
>> Yeah, it's gified a little bit.
>> Yeah, it is. It is a bit gified and it's
kind of fun.
>> All right, so this is cool. It's kind of
given me like this would be my Slack
post. TLDDR
>> 16x more AI line super users versus
other users. Let me zoom in just a bit
more. More agent requests for super
users. I love this. Stop typing. Start
shipping.
>> It's dark mode, so the engineers will
just love it.
>> Yes. Right. Um, it's kind of perfect.
And then
you installed cursor, but you haven't
used AI yet. We talked about this.
That's cool. Light mode. Okay. I, you
know, this like resonates. Stop saying
fix this bug. Actually like talk to it
like you would maybe a junior engineer,
>> right?
>> Um, cursor just did release bug bots. I
love Bugbot.
>> Cursor. I love I love Bugbot.
>> Agent isn't for heart stuff, it's for
everything. These are like motivational
quotes now, but I think like we should
just make posters for and put them up on
the wall. Um, write unit tests, actually
read the comments. Okay, cool. Now,
power users, you're good to be great,
think bigger, and to have harder.
>> Okay, there. If cursor is listening, I
think this is like gonna be your new
merch line, guys.
>> I need a hat that says tab harder.
>> Yes.
>> Okay. So, just to just to recap again,
we're doing we're doing uh free free
product work for cursor here. We we took
you know your ultimate problem was like
how do I drive up adoption in these
tools? And you're like of course I'm
going to use the tool to understand
adoption and then figure out ways to
drive drive adoption. We did analysis.
We created a visualization of the um the
data itself. You identified cohorts and
power users which would have been very
tedious to do if you were going to do
manually.
>> Yeah.
>> And then you created a
hosted playbook. Um, as well as a series
of motivational statements which we can
either give to our friends at Cursor for
free or trademark right now and make a
little a little money. Um, agent
everything tab without thinking bugbot
always on iterate prompts. Love it.
>> And this, you know, again what I think
is fun, let me talk about what I think
is fun about this one.
Everybody who has been in engineering
leadership knows this is the kind of
stuff you get asked to put in a board
meeting. You get asked by your boss like
what percentage of our engineers are
using cursor? Do we have power users?
Are we actually getting value? And we're
talking about an AI use case right now.
But again across management there are
actually measurable things you can do
about the performance and efficiency of
your team.
>> Yes. And
>> I think it been so impossible to get
before. Two,
it would be no fun if you didn't get to
do it with code, which you get to you
get to do with code.
>> Actually, that is solve problems with
just code now, right? You can just do
things. I I you know, you're so right.
Like I I think this I underappreciated
what exactly what you're saying right
now and and I just want to repeat it
because normally you would be asked this
and then you would have to go pull an IC
to do that and like what what
>> like come on like no you can just do
things right now.
>> Well and and again it's like not I I I
think people underappreciate the
velocity creation of a fun task.
>> Yeah. which is like at the end of the
day like this is silly but also the like
little fun bits of it you're like great
I want to go to the next level cuz I got
like a little dopamine hit from this
dark mode playbook that's kind of funny
and I I think people underappreciate
like that iteration speed that can just
come with like a fast feedback loop
>> when you're building something and the
fast feedback loop when you're building
something that has high quality against
it which like something designed like
this does is so much more fun to look at
than a Google doc. Yeah.
>> Or a spreadsheet or a dashboard. So, we
we did it. We did it. We again, you and
I are twin stars, I think, here. And so,
we can probably go all day on the things
that we find fun. But, let's go to a
second use case that I think people are
going to see. And let's see how fast we
can do this use case, which is you were
talking about the speed of feedback to
feature. And you you said some fighting
words out there. You're like, we're
really compressing the time from
feedback to feature. So, how does that
actually work?
>> Those were those were some fighting
words. Um, and
you know, I think you know this, right?
You want you want to build this for your
users, right? And you want to create the
best damn product out there as fast as
possible. And the way to like make that
cycle work really well is genuinely how
fast you can move on feedback. Okay. But
I want to start from how does like
feedback even normally come in, right?
So you you know normal like teams and
and culturally like you'll have dog
fooding or bug bash sessions, right?
You'll get on a meet or get in a room,
keep using the product, blah blah blah,
all that jazz and then someone has to
like collect the bugs in a Google doc
and then take those bugs in a Google doc
and put them into a ticket system,
right?
>> Uh okay. And then there's a whole
discussion around
is this important, is this not
important? Okay, should we pick it up in
this sprint? Should we wait for another
sprint? And by that time, your user has
turned out. They're like, you guys
didn't fix this. I kind of hate it.
Moving on, right? Everyone's attention
is like so so so short. And right now,
like the whole team, uh, we're all
preparing for a big launch. Um and we
wanted to get together and do this thing
called a surge. And this is where we
like just bring the team together and we
do very very long days um using all this
AI and just shipping like massive
amounts of code. Uh and fun fact like
during these surges we end up shipping
like more than three to 4x more PR
volume in the same time. But the other
thing we wanted to do was bring people
into the office and we set up this thing
called like a feedback cafe. So we'd
invite externals, internals, etc. And we
dog food with them and we'd show them
the app and like here's just like a
couple seconds of, you know, what it
looks like. We're just standing there
collecting information doing all this
like live dog fooding. And the hard part
though is especially in real life. How
do you actually capture that
information? Because it's voice, it's
video. How do you translate it into a
system? Okay. So, I just spent like half
a weekend and built a tool to capture
feedback live. Let's just pick
something. I'm gonna pick I'm gonna I'm
gonna pick a new thing. How I AI testing
with Claire.
Awesome. So, let's do that. It's going
to create a little session. Perfect.
Very simple. And we have two modes. You
can like you can use this on your mobile
phone. That's what the team did uh when
they were in real life. But for this,
I'm just going to like capture some
audio. And let's see what's what's
actually maybe I can just hear from you
like a fun little bug or something uh of
a product that you you think you want to
fix. So we're going to start capturing
audio.
There is a AI chatbot that I use where
my account when switched to business
account forces me to clear all my chats.
And I think we should fix that bug so
that I can access my existing chats.
>> We're gonna start capturing audio. We're
gonna Okay, cool. We captured it. It's
basically taking the audio.
>> I did a system prompt. Sends it to an
LLM. Um, and then what we do is it the
prompt is basically saying go and
identify the bugs. Yep.
>> Right. And then it'll create it. I'm
going to do one while it's processing.
>> Right now, I'm using the app. I'm on the
trade tab and I'm clicking the from
field and I'm typing in numbers, but the
numbers are not showing up. So that's
not letting me make a trade. So I think
in our first example, the audio is a
little hard to capture through the
system. But let's look at the second
example.
>> It calls it out really clearly. On trade
tab, typing into from field does not
display enter numbers. User cannot
initiate a trade. Cool. Really, really
clean.
>> Yep.
>> I hit create linear ticket. It even
gives like a suggested title.
The user journey I care about for this
is trade. Boom. I create the ticket
itself.
Awesome. I hop over.
The ticket is all here. The file is
there. Linear is a incredible tool. It's
doing some triaging. But the thing I
want to now hop over to is we're going
to just create the PR. So we have this
tool we built inhouse. We call it
Cloudbot. It's actually like using all
sorts of underlying models. Uh it's not
something that is specific to to to
Claude. Um, so Cloudbot create PR. I
know the repo for this is wallet mobile.
And here's the ticket.
>> Oh, that's not the ticket.
>> The ticket is boom. Here. Great.
Cool. So, I just went from
a bug report to ticket
>> to a PR
>> to the PR is cooking.
>> Okay. So, I have to pause because if you
um are new to how I AI, you have not
seen my signature move when I really
love something, which is this. And I was
doing this because I was just thinking
about this this little micro app that
you have on the left side, which is, you
know, live user feedback,
totally unstructured, right? Video or
audio. Run a little baby LLM on it. get
not only a summary of the issue but a
good recommendation on how you might fix
it. Very quick beep boop to linear. We
love our friends at linear. I think it's
a great platform for agents. And then a
little custom agent in your Slack that
can read those linear tickets and just
execute on them. And again so
traumatized by the past maybe which is
like this process would have been you
know somebody
manually summarizing
>> Yep.
>> what came out of a research session.
>> Y
>> some document being written somebody
actually making explicit decisions about
what to include and not include. I think
>> the decision making is gone.
>> Yeah.
>> Like no filter anymore. You don't get
that like, well, you know, if I make
this five pages long, no one's going to
read it. So, I'm really going to focus
on the top 10 things. It's like, let's
capture everything and then just burn
through it. And then I have to ask you,
why did you all build your own little
bot to do this? What was the advantage
of of building the bot?
>> So, this this is like in-house. Um, and
we built it, you know, it all started um
around like middle of this year. I
created this like I I was just obsessing
so much about AI and I was like how do I
how do I create better tooling for the
team for the company so everyone can be
accelerated. So I invented actually like
I put a call out on Twitter I invented
this role called superb builder and the
single job single most important job of
a super builder is to create more superb
builders. So we we hired our first
superb builder and they um we we talked
about some ideas and one of the biggest
things because most of our company uses
Slack. We're all in Slack and Slack, you
know, I'm like strong believer it's just
a bunch of humans pretending to be
systems, right? And the cost of writing
something in Slack is zero, but the cost
of answering something in Slack is
enormous and most of it is noise, right?
And so one of the things was just like
how do we bring the workflows that we
are all so used to
um and how do we like sort of capture
that and then add AI on top of it. So we
had like various reasons we know like
lots of companies have background agents
cursor etc etc. Uh we just have like
different sort of security requirements
right now that we just couldn't launch
with it and that's fine. So we we built
this in house and we have these like
feedback channels, right? Hey, there's a
bug here, there's a bug here. And so now
all we just do is like cloudbot go and
do something with that. Or if someone is
um like, hey, we just got out of this
meeting. Here's a summarized transcript.
We're like, awesome at linear agent, go
break this down into tickets. Then just
like you know, you know the look you you
showed like right like everyone is just
doing that emoji of like the head
exploding, right? Because then now we
have like 20 tickets and then we do fun
things like this which is just go like
bonkers
where we just fire off
tons and tons of calls
right to just
and so we we built this plan mode. So,
this bot has a create PR, which I'm it's
cooking. Um, it has a and also the cool
thing about create PR is when it's done,
it will respond back, it will show you a
link to like the cursor branch using
cursors deep link. And when then the
oneoff build is ready, it will show the
QR code. So, you can just scan and start
playing with the fix, right? There's a
plan mode which is very much like
cursors plan mode. It just comes up with
like a plan. And then we also have um
explain as well where it's like oh I
want to debug something. So like um why
is
Chinten's app not working right now? Um
Chintton.base.
As an example, right? and it has like
all the skills all the MCPS and so
the thing the thing I realized is
context is the most important thing. So
the place where we capture all of our
context is linear and then you this
agent that we built um we added skills
and MCPS. So if we can capture context
through linear then we can trigger the
agent uh using all the context from
linear and then it goes off into all the
MCPS like data dog sentry amplitude um
our internal snowflake databases etc and
it has the ability to pull context from
the rest of the company and it can work
across multiple code bases and then boom
like
it's it's like a it's a it's it's a
superb builder.
>> This is this is awesome. And so before
we move move on, I think what I want to
call it here are a couple things that I
hope people didn't miss. One is right
now if I can give people career advice.
>> You want to be like the the top three
most AI pill in your engineering
organization. I'm sorry. I just have to
say it like I you know I whenever I you
know pulled an engineering leader aside
or someone aside who's like maybe a
little AI skeptical and I said like I
want you to lead this. I wasn't doing
it. Yes, of course I want to do it
because I think it has high impact on
the company, but I felt like I was doing
people a career favor by giving them
this role. And so, if you can find
companies that are hiring superb
builders that will put you in the role
of driving AI across an organization
where you can learn these skills, I tell
you it is a incredible benefit to your
overall career. And I don't think people
appreciate how much that is pretty still
rare right now. So if you can find it, I
would just beline directly directly to
it. I think the other thing and we've
seen this a couple times. We saw this
Amplitude actually did it. Building your
own agents is not impossible for
organizations. And so if you do have
security compliance, data access
restrictions, you can't use cloud
agents, you can't use these things, it
is not impossible to build these things
yourself. And there are lots of like
really great SDKs out there too that you
can use um to do so. And then you know
three like I do think some of these
platforms linear and slack are just
friction reducers to access to AI. And
so if you are thinking about driving AI
adoption in your organization like
figure out how you can get the right
platforms in place that can unlock
access to agents because if you ask
somebody to open or learn a new tool
it's just going to create too much
friction um to to move forward. I think
there's like one super important thing
like this. This is a channel where we
call Cloudbot Playground. And I'm
scrolling through fast just to show you
like how much people are using. This was
one night. I was up at like 1:00 a.m.
just pushing this. We got like 200 bugs,
right, from this tool I showed you.
>> And I just kicked them all off in like
one solid go just to get things cooking.
And like it was great. Uh let's see if a
plan came out here. Yeah. So like
there's a there's a plan that comes it
actually creates the plan in the linear
ticket.
>> Yep.
>> This the trick here. Why Slack is
because Slack is how things go viral
within your company.
>> Totally.
>> If you have pulled out the magic into
some separate tool that others can't
see.
>> Yep.
>> It doesn't happen. And so by getting
things into Slack,
>> people just like, "Holy this is
possible. Let's go. And it's like it's
really cool.
>> I I completely agree. Okay. So, we have
just seen about everything I wanted to
see from the engineering side. But
before we get out of here, I want you to
spend just a couple minutes on a
personal use case.
>> Okay, let's go. I I think the one that
resonates probably for everyone is
getting if you have kids, getting the
school emails that it's like, oh, here
are 50 events that are about to land. Uh
here are the dates. I've just started
taking a picture of it and then throw it
into chat GPD and say create the
calendar invites
>> 100%.
>> Right. It's like it's the dumbest thing,
but oh my god. And then the shared
calendar dance happens and it's like
it's so great. Another thing though,
like I love food and wine. I really do.
And like um I've done like Somalia
training, etc., etc. And I and I
realized like, you know, I went to New
York recently with my one of my buddies.
He's uh he's learning about AI, but he's
like what what are some of the real use
cases that would resonate with me? And I
was like, well, like one of the biggest
sort of anxieties people have is when
they go to a restaurant, they're handed
the wine menu, right? And they're like,
what do I pick? What if I pick the wrong
thing? So, uh, with my friend in New
York, we went to some, uh, like
champagne tasting. And so, like, I just
took notes. There's like this whole
hour ago. And I was like, "Oh, here's a
great producer. Single star means like,
yeah, it's good." And then here's
another one. Oh, see I wrote amazing by
like this is someone I've actually never
tried before, but I loved loved their
champagne. Let's see. It was just super
yummy. Here's another one. Right.
Effectively, then I just like popped
this right in and I said, "Here are a
bunch of champagnes that I tasted.
Figure out from my notes like what are
my taste preferences."
>> Really simple. Because you know like
when I when I did like Somalia classes
the biggest thing that it teaches you is
the vocabulary to describe the stuff you
like right and then so I just took the
images it figured out the producers and
this is actually like spoton the fun
thing I did with my friend while I was
in New York was like we were just he was
he's he actually is the real life
version of chat GPT and it's it's what
inspired me to do this which is he's
always trying to figure out my taste
preferences and so you know this is like
my strongest signal. I I love like these
wines that have very little sugar that
are like really ripering acidic. I love
some aging. I love growers, right?
Grower champagne, not like the big
houses that are like very sweet. It even
went into like a certain subcategory
of like, you know, the chalky style.
This is specific producer that I wrote
amazing by for. And it also called out
something I learned in real life, which
is like I do like Pinoet, but only like
with this sort of characteristic, right?
Kind of crazy. All right, fine. And so
then it came up with like a little bit
of like a champagne profile.
Cool. And if I'm buying stuff, you know,
here's here's what I would buy. All of
that's fine. Okay. Like why on earth
would anyone do this, right? Like like
people must be listening and be like,
"Okay, maybe just drink a little less
champagne, dude." But like the fun thing
is let's say you took you went to a
restaurant, right? And I just did this
for this like example here. And you just
like dropped in took a picture of uh the
wine menu, right? And it's like a big
old menu. Some of them are like size of
a dictionary. Some of them are simple,
but like you don't want to make a
choice, especially you just want to be
with like talking to the company that's
in front of you and not like staring at
the wine bible. You drop it in and boom,
what it actually comes out with. And and
I think the prompt I asked is what would
I like from this list? What are good
values? And it kind of just went through
this really fast based on my preferences
like and it's right like I would love
this. I have I have had it and it's
great and it's fun. It shares the price.
Absolute no-brainer. Another example.
Another example. And then it kind of
gets into a bit more detail like
categorically like look if you want a
value one and just like want a bunch of
bottles go for this. Like everyone's
going to love it. If you want something
a bit like more splurgy, try these,
right? Um and very much like it kind of
talks about what why you'll like it.
What I love the most though says this is
the stuff just to stay away from, right?
And you know if it's a big night then
just go get these six bottles and and
call it a day. And so like that's the
fun thing here for me.
>> So what I have to call out for folks is
we've actually seen not this particular
use case but this flow before which is
like how do you reverse engineer your
own taste. So we saw Hillary at Whoop
show how to reverse engineer her own
taste on slides. Um we saw I forget
somebody else reverse engineered
photographic styles. um Ravi uh reverse
engineered photographic styles and said
like here's a photo like tell me explain
to me how to how to describe this but
you are the first person that has
reverse engineered their own taste in
wines and I love this and now you can
>> pick yummy stuff to get for and you know
what six bottle cart I'm going out with
you next time
>> I know we'll we'll we'll celebrate AI
adoption or something like that
>> this has been so great I have one uh two
lightning round questions for you. We'll
keep them very short and then we'll get
you out of here. My first one is if you
look back two years ago to now at work,
how are you how are you spending your
time differently? Like how has all this
changed how you personally spend your
time?
>> My calendar is empty.
>> Like almost empty. And the reason why is
cuz the coordination overhead of like,
hey, let's prioritize this, let's change
this, let's change the road map. No, you
just do things. That's one. two, I'm
writing way more code. The team knows
like uh if their contributions fall
below mine, like that's that's we we got
to like help on the AI, but like look
like I'm also jumping in. The team is
doing incredibly hard work. I am
spending way more time in the code base,
fixing bugs, trying things, coming up
with like technical approaches. I am not
a replacement for like the insane amount
of talented cracked engineers on my
team, but I'm able to move things
forward much faster and cut through the
>> If if AI has done anything for us,
cancelling meetings would be would be
the gift that that I want. Okay, my last
question is when AI is not listening to
you, when it gives you a really dumb
playbook for your engineers, what is
your prompting technique? It depends on
like how many tries times I've tried to
convince it. But generally, it's like,
okay, one, you're clearly not listening
to me. This is what I said. Two, yeah, I
know I'm absolutely right, but like,
stop being stupid. I need your help. And
three, I I like the nuclear option is I
threaten it and I say, um, Claude, if
I'm using like Claude Opus 4.5 high,
like, okay, I'm going to stop using you,
Claude, and going to switch to Gemini.
And then it gets its together.
I love it. I don't know what that says
about either parenting or management
effective. Well, this has been great.
Where can we find you, your team, and
how can we be helpful?
>> Yes. Um, so I'm on Twitter, Chintanakia.
We are building the base app. It used to
be known as uh Coinbase wallet. And I
think by the time that when this uh
episode airs, it will be live to the
general public. Use it. It is a consumer
social app that happens to use crypto
and it's enabling creators to earn and
be valued. Um, and we're excited to
launch it and we think it's like a real
big paradigm shift in crypto consumer
apps. So give us a feedback, give it a
shot, post uh see the magic happen. And
we are hiring two uh cracked frontend
backend design engineers ML engineers
builders
>> super builders I have two super builders
happy to bring in a third one but like
it is it is really really fun uh to work
here on this team and and it it it'll be
it'll be awesome. So come
>> well thanks for joining us.
>> Thank you. This um this was such a a
great way to cap off the week.
Thanks so much for watching. If you
enjoyed this show, please like and
subscribe here on YouTube, or even
better, leave us a comment with your
thoughts. You can also find this podcast
on Apple Podcasts, Spotify, or your
favorite podcast app. Please consider
leaving us a rating and review, which
will help others find the show. You can
see all our episodes and learn more
about the show at howiipod.com.
See you next time.