So, I wanted to take a look at this big
Honey scandal that's going on. If you're
not familiar with Honey, Honey is one of
those coupon Chrome extensions, which
means all of its code is available for
me to look at. And so, I can take a look
at the things that are being alleged in
these YouTube videos, and I can actually
see, is this happening? But more so with
when it comes to extensions, I can
actually look over time and see were
these bad decisions being made and have
software engineers made alterations to
not only continue on, but make these bad
behaviors even better and more robust.
Yes. Yes, they have. And I'm going to
show you how that's happened. But I know
there's plenty of you that probably have
no idea what's going on. You're not
really even familiar with Honey. And so
you don't you have never really been
caught up. This actually involves a very
specific operation of Honey that I want
to go over. So, we're actually going to
watch a threeinut excerpt from this
latest Honey reveal video. And then I'm
going to talk about going through the
minified code and exactly what I found
and the intent behind it, which is a bit
surprising. Now, if there's one thing
people hate more than deception, it's
theft. And in my first video, I showed
you how Honey was stealing money from
influencers. But what I didn't tell you
is that this behavior is in most cases
strictly not allowed. You see, the
companies that run this industry, the
affiliate networks, know full well that
coupon extensions like Honey, have a
high probability of poaching commissions
from influencers, bloggers, and other
content-driven affiliates. More
importantly, they also understand that
this is not fair, especially under the
last click wins policy, which has
remained an industry standard. So, to
prevent this type of commission theft,
most major affiliate networks enforce
what's known as a standown policy. Let
me show you what that looks like on
Honey. Let's visit newe.com first
without an affiliate link. And as you
can see, Honey immediately pops up
offering cash back. But if we do this
again, this time using my affiliate link
for Newegg, you'll notice that Honey
doesn't pop up at all. And if we click
on the Honey icon, you can see that
Honey is now disabled. So, that's how
Honey is supposed to behave when a
user's already clicked on someone else's
affiliate link. So, where then is the
alleged fraud, you ask? Well, as it
turns out, Honey has always had a
standown system built into their app,
but they have been selectively choosing
when and whom to apply the rules. Let's
test my affiliate link for Newegg again.
Only this time, I have two entirely
separate Chrome browsers open at the
same time, and each is logged into a
different Honey account. The Honey
account on the left has zero cash back
points, while the Honey account on the
right has accumulated cash back points.
Now, watch what happens when I open the
Newegg affiliate link on both browsers.
The Honey account on the left stands
down as it did the first time. But look
at this. The account on the right, which
has cashback points, did not stand down.
So, why is that? So, this is the thing
that I wanted to test. I wanted to go
through this because this is code. I can
understand code. I can look at the JSON
that's coming down and I can understand
it. Not only that, but the power of AI
will allow me to search through minified
code at speeds unbeknownst to me just
throughout my entire programming
universe. So what we did is that we
first got a bunch of versions of Honey.
So the ones that I kind of went through
were starting from about February 2019
all the way up until present day 1901.
And with that, what I wanted to do is
go, okay, first off, is this like user
point kind of deciding when to and when
not to show the standown menu? Does it
exist? Yes, it does quite exist. But the
real question was, had it like changed?
Because I worked at a big I've worked at
a big company, right? You've worked at a
big company. I'm sure you have or some
of you have. And you know that sometimes
code just sticks around. You know, it's
like whoopsie pups. It's just still
there. No one's changed it in five
years. That's just the way it is. And
that's kind of what I was looking for,
which is did the code stick around or
has there been changes that were
significant, not like little bug fixes.
All right, so to avoid being
copyrighted, cuz apparently PayPal
lawyers will copyright hit them with the
DMCA, anyone that actually shows the
code. That means I have to do this weird
charade dance on the old blackboard to
show you what was happening. So starting
in version 11, remember which is about
2019, this version did have the standown
logic. It did even have things that were
called SSD standown logics. It matched
the JSON file that comes down with a
bunch of data. Here is my standown uh of
a user that's like not logged in at all.
The most basic stuff in here you can see
up is user points. ADB is like add block
last time used. There's also is account
logged in. And there's some other fields
that seem to crop up every now and then.
So, what's interesting is in in 2019
under version 11, things often looked
like this. There's like a giant switch
statement that ended up having these
cases where it was just like, okay, hey,
do we test for an email? And yes, it
literally had a string. Does this email
contain test? Then always stand down,
which by the way, shady. It's avoiding
these link testing accounts to come in
to be have like link share test to go
see does this actually work because
let's just face it who here hasn't had a
tester account that does not contain the
test I most certainly have. But
nonetheless, this right here was an
explicit check. If you have the word
test in your email anywhere, it will
disable you. But more so that I mean
this was already talked about but more
so the things that were really confusing
is it'd go through a series of checks
and it would be like hey is the provider
that is uh currently active equal to LS
which is link share if it is I want you
to apply these exact rules and then
later on it had this check where it go
through all the rules that it figured
out and then it go one by one in a
little for loop going through each one
of these rules and checking do any of
them fail if any of them fail it would
stand down. So, this was a fairly kind
of hard-coded process as you can see
because there was like literal lines
saying like if link share do this
action. If we're in this other provider,
do something else. Now, I of course have
been on many many of projects where this
kind of stuff just happens. This is
totally normal. You start off where
you're like, okay, hey, we might have
one or two providers and that's that.
So, I'll just put a little couple
hardcode edge cases in here and we'll
just make sure things get taken care of
in a certain way. we stand down for some
amount of duration, which by the way was
not a very long part. You should watch
Megal's video to find out exactly how
just awful the rules actually were. But
again, my goal is to go, okay, did they
make changes to the code? Were there bug
fixes? What happened? Well, this is
where things get a little bit confusing
cuz between the versions 11 through 14,
uh, which I believe is all the way up
until 2022. Yes, 2022, things remained
pretty much a constant. Nothing really
changed. A little bit of edits, nothing
to really show much. But starting
around, I believe in version 16, so in
2024, there was a robust refactor made
such that they can drive a lot of these
decisions from an endpoint in Honey.
Now, this endpoint sends down an object
that looks like this that has this base
value, then it has these values, then it
has these values under X. So that means
the previous version it used a bunch a
series of if statements to kind of
determine the type of behaviors that it
wanted to do and then it would do rule
evaluation to see did this rule actually
pass. Did we actually get out a true or
a false? But in version 16 they decided
to go a bit more intense when it comes
to software engineering. Now we all know
what do you do whenever you have a bunch
of if statements that are kind of doing
this like wrapping of data and kind of
doing a basic mutation on an object.
Well, you you would want to drive it
through some sort of config. You'd want
to drive it through something that is a
bit more dynamic to make it a little bit
easier. And that's exactly what they
did. So, if we go back here and look at
the data that is coming down from me, a
non-logged Honey user, you will see
right here is that I have a base class.
This base class will become the base
object for how Honey determines. Right
now, for this non-logged user base
class, I require 65,000 user points for
Honey to not stand down. If I have less
than 65,000 points, remember I'm not
logged in, so I have zero points. It
will say, "Sorry, I'm standing down. I
I'm avoiding this." Now, when it gets
that base, what it then does is it
checks how did it get here? Where was
like where did we get here? Why did we
get here? And it does the next check.
Was this from one of these affiliate
networks? And then it will start
wrapping things. So, okay. So, if I come
from a link share place, it will now
only make my points required 5,01.
It will edit this base object. It's
actually doing the better, more
sophisticated engineering. It's not a
series of hard-coded if statements
anymore. Instead, it's doing an actual,
hey, take.base. Then, I want to say, do
you have my provider? If you have my
provider, I want to spread in my
provider's values or just an empty
object. And then it did something even
more wild, which is all of these right
here under X. These are all store
specific values. Then it would check,
hey, whatever store I'm currently in, I
also want to put on those values as
well. And then it would go and do the
basic rule logic showing that it's not
anymore under some sort of maintenance
mode. It's showing that it's no longer
kind of this hardcoded hacky thing
that's been existing for like a decade.
Instead, they went from that and in
2024, they said, "You know what? We need
to be more robust and we need to be able
to make more decisions about more stores
and more providers in a more kind of
easier to maintain fashion. This was
software engineering people and they did
it." So, when I look at this, what I see
is that over time they have made changes
to make their system better, which means
that there is an intent behind it. They
want to keep whatever this system is
doing, whether it is or is not
fraudulent, I cannot say. That's for
somebody else to decide. But I can at
least say that their decisions have been
to make it more robust and better. And
given the fact that the general
perception of this system as being
pretty shady, they've made their pretty
shady system much, much better. But
that's not all I found. I I found
something else that kind of piqued my
interest. I kept seeing the word Vim
that just kept popping up. Now I'm like,
Vim, what what is the text editor doing?
When I asked Claude Code about it, it
actually said, "Hey, you're talking
about the Vim instance manager that's
been found inside of uh Honey." And I
was like, "Vim instance manager? Okay,
that's that can't be it. That is not
it." And then as I started looking at
this, what I ended up seeing is that
there is an entire JavaScript in
JavaScript engine that runs inside the
Honey plugin. Now, this is absolutely
the strangest thing I have ever seen. Uh
I tried to do some reading up on it. I'm
not a plug-in developer expert when it
comes to Chrome, so I had no idea why
anyone would ever run JavaScript in
JavaScript. But what Honey does is it
actually has Acorn, which is a
JavaScript parser, and produces an a
from valid JavaScript, and it takes
this, evaluates JavaScript, and then
feeds it into this Vim engine. Now,
there's several references within the
code that actually refer to this other
object called cart ops retrieval.js and
product ops retrieval.js, JS, which
sometimes is not null, actually contains
code. And it also refers to this JS
code, which is also not null sometimes.
Like right here, it's actual real
JavaScript. But as far as I could tell,
it's not actually executing any of this
code. I tried to set some break points.
I never actually got to the point of
making it trigger. But nonetheless, this
does exist. They have the apparatus set
up to be able to execute remote code on
your machine based on whatever it
returns from Honey in a very, very
obuscated way. this JavaScript in
JavaScript. They have a JavaScript
parser. They have a JavaScript virtual
machine. It is actual JavaScript in the
JavaScript. But they also have this one
section that there's just all of these
stringified functions. And there a bunch
of inlined JavaScript that's just filled
with ways in which they search through
pages and stuff like this. But those
ones those ones come down with the
product. though they're not technically
against the old uh Google terms of
service cuz if you look at the
additional requirements for the manifest
v3 for anyone that's doing this is you
should not be allowed to use JavaScript
eval. Okay, so we're not going to do
that. We're not going to eval. What
we're going to do is we're going to
hardcode some operations we don't want
other plugins know we're doing and then
we're going to incorporate an entire
JavaScript engine to run them to further
obuscate what we are doing. Which is
funny because this V3 right here, it
seems like it was designed for Honey
specifically because it says building an
interpreter to run complex commands
fetched from a remote source even if
those commands are fetched as data. So
they get around it. These aren't remote
things. These are strings that are
actually available within the Honey uh
extension. But man, this is some
obuscation. This is some weird stuff. I
cannot personally understand a single
reason why this is actually happening.
Like I said, apparently it's due to
interactions with other extensions.
Other extensions being ad blockers.
Apparently ad blockers might ad block
the Honey extension if it directly runs
certain functions. But somehow through
this weird interpreter, it's able to
actually run stuff that is getting
avoided to be caught. I don't know, but
it seems like a cluster festival to me.
And I found this to be very, very
interesting because I've never done any
sort of reverse engineering. I've never
really looked through someone else's
source code, especially minified source
code. I just wanted to show you guys
this. This is perhaps the most unusual
engineering I've ever seen in my
lifetime. I've been a part of code bases
that have 10 plus thousand lines long of
weird state machines and are impossible
to work with, hard to reason about, but
this has to take the cake. This has to
be the most complex, weirdest
contraption RP Goldberg level I have
ever seen. But furthermore, the dynamic
rules for doing the standown stuff,
they're robust. Whatever the purpose is,
whether it is or isn't fraudulent, it
has been designed to be dynamic and to
be controlled via JSON on a per store,
per provider, and per user basis.
Anyways, I want to give a special shout
out to Megal. It was really awesome. I
got to chat with him. He helped me a
little bit kind of looking through some
stuff. So, big shout out to him. You
should definitely check out the video.
It's in the description. It's super well
done. There are multiple of them and I
recommend you watch them all. They're
very, very good. Also, do you do you
like this thing that I did? Do do you
like this format? I don't know. This is
kind of new. This is just me spending
some time on stream having fun and then
reporting back to you. If you were on
stream, you would have saw this happen
live. Could have been a lot more fun for
you. The name
is I'm not a reverse engineer, but this
was a lot of fun. I can see why people
do it again. Hey, is that HTTP? Get that
out of here. That's not how we order
coffee. We order coffee via SSH
terminal.shop. Yeah. You want a real
experience? You want real coffee? You
want awesome subscriptions so you never
have to remember again? Oh, you want
exclusive blends with exclusive coffee
and exclusive content? Then check out
Cron. You don't know what SSH is?
>> Well, maybe the coffee is not for you.
Living
dream.