I don't think formal verification really addresses most day-to-day programming problems:
* A user interface is confusing, or the English around it is unclear
* An API you rely on changes, is deprecated, etc.
* Users use something in unexpected ways
* Updates forced by vendors or open source projects cause things to break
* The customer isn't clear what they want
* Complex behavior between interconnected systems, out of the purview of the formal language (OS + database + network + developer + VM + browser + user + web server)
For some mathematically pure task, sure, it's great. Or a low-level library like a regular expression parser or a compression codec. But I don't think that represents a lot of what most of us are tasked with, and those low-level "mathematically pure" libraries are generally pretty well handled by now.
In fact, automated regression tests done by ai with visual capabilities may have bigger impact than formal verification has. You can have an army of testers now, painfully going through every corner of your software
Will only work somewhat when customers expect features to work in a standard way. When customer spec things to work in non-standard approaches you'll just end up with a bunch of false positives.
This. When the bugs come streaming in you better have some other AI ready to triage them and more AI to work them, because no human will be able to keep up with it all.
Bug reporting is already about signal vs noise. Imagine how it will be when we hand the megaphone to bots.
TBH most day to day programming problems are barely worth having tests for. But if we had formal specs and even just hand wavy correspondences between the specs and the implementation for the low level things everybody depends on that would be a huge improvement for the reliability of the whole ecosystem.
A limited form of formal verification is already mainstream. It is called type systems. The industry in general has been slowly moving to encode more invariants into the type system, because every invariant that is in the type system is something you can stop thinking about until the type checker yells at you.
A lot of libraries document invariants that are either not checked at all, only at runtime, or somewhere in between. For instance, the requirement that a collection not be modified during interaction. Or that two region of memory do not overlap, or that a variable is not modified without owning a lock. These are all things that, in principle, can be formally verified.
No one claims that good type systems prevent buggy software. But, they do seem to improve programmer productivity.
For LLMs, there is an added benefit. If you can formally specify what you want, you can make that specification your entire program. Then have an LLM driven compiler produce a provably correct implementation. This is a novel programming paradigm that has never before been possible; although every "declarative" language is an attempt to approximate it.
> No one claims that good type systems prevent buggy software.
That's exactly what languages with advanced type systems claim. To be more precise, they claim to eliminate entire classes of bugs. So they reduce bugs, they don't eliminate them completely.
I hate this meme. Null indicates something. If you disallow null that same state gets encoded in some other way. And if you don't properly check for that state you get the exact same class of bug. The desirable type system feature here is the ability to statically verify that such a check has occurred every time a variable is accessed.
Another example is bounds checking. Languages that stash the array length somewhere and verify against it on access eliminate yet another class of bug without introducing any programmer overhead (although there generally is some runtime overhead).
The whole point of "no nullability bombs" is to make it obvious in the type system when the value might be not present, and force that to be handled.
Javascript:
let x = foo();
if (x.bar) { ... } // might blow up
Typescript:
let x = foo(); // type of x is Foo | undefined
if (x === undefined) { ...; return; } // I am forced to handle this
if (x.bar) { ... } // this is now safe, as Typescript knows x can only be a Foo now
(Of course, languages like Rust do that cleaner, since they don't have to be backwards-compatible with old Javascript. But I'm using Typescript in hopes of a larger audience.)
If you eliminate the odd integers from consideration, you've eliminated an entire class of integers. yet, the set of remaining integers is of the same size as the original.
Programs are not limited; the number of Turing machines is countably infinite.
When you say things like "eliminate a class of bugs", that is played out in the abstraction: an infinite subset of that infinity of machines is eliminated, leaving an infinity.
How you then sample from that infinity in order to have something which fits on your actual machine is a separate question.
How do you count how many bugs a program has? If I replace the Clang code base by a program that always outputs a binary that prints hello world, how many bugs is that? Or if I replace it with a program that exits immediately?
Maybe another example is compiler optimisations: if we say that an optimising compiler is correct if it outputs the most efficient (in number of executed CPU instructions) output program for the every input program, then every optimising compiler is buggy. You can always make it less buggy by making more of the outputs correct, but you can never satisfy the specification on ALL inputs because of undecidability.
Because the number of state where a program can be is so huge (when you consider everything that can influence how a program runs and the context where and when it runs) it is for the current computation power practically infinite but yes it is theoretically finite and can even be calculated.
> For LLMs, there is an added benefit. If you can formally specify what you want, you can make that specification your entire program. Then have an LLM driven compiler produce a provably correct implementation. This is a novel programming paradigm that has never before been possible; although every "declarative" language is an attempt to approximate it.
The problem is there is always some chance a coding agent will get stuck and be unable to produce a conforming implementation in a reasonable amount of time. And then you are back in a similar place to what you were with those pre-LLM solutions - needing a human expert to work out how to make further progress.
With the added issue that now the expert is working with code they didn't write, and that could be in general be harder to understand than human-written code. So they could find it easier to just throw it away and start from scratch.
Given that it's the AI doing the coding, it would be pretty quickly so long as it's decent at Haskell. Which it already is, surprisingly so actually for such a niche language. It doesn't necessarily write great code, but it's good enough, and the straightjacket type system makes it very hard for the model to sneak in creative hacks like using globals, or trip itself with mutable state.
IMHO, these strong type systems are just not worth it for most tasks.
As an example, I currently mostly write GUI applications for mobile and desktop as a solo dev. 90% of my time is spent on figuring out API calls and arranging layouts. Most of the data I deal with are strings with their own validation and formatting rules that are complicated and at the same time usually need to be permissive. Even at the backend all the data is in the end converted to strings and integers when it is put into a database. Over-the-wire serialization also discards with most typing (although I prefer protocol buffers to alleviate this problem a bit).
Strong typing can be used in between those steps but the added complexity from data conversions introduces additional sources of error, so in the end the advantages are mostly nullified.
> Most of the data I deal with are strings with their own validation and formatting rules that are complicated and at the same time usually need to be permissive
this is exactly where a good type system helps: you have an unvalidated string and a validated string which you make incompatible at the type level, thus eliminating a whole class of possible mistakes. same with object ids, etc.
I would argue that the barrier to entry is on par with python for a person with no experience, but you need much more time with Haskell to become proficient in it. In python, on the other hand, you can learn the basics and these will get you pretty far
Piggybacking off your comment, I just completed a detailed research paper where I compared Haskell to C# with an automated trading strategy. I have many years of OOP and automated trading experience, but struggled a bit at first implementing in Haskell syntax. I attempted to stay away from LLMs, but ended up using them here and there to get the syntax right.
Haskell is actually a pretty fun language, although it doesn't fly off my fingers like C# or C++ does. I think a really great example of the differences is displayed in the recursive Fibonacci sequence.
In C#:
public int Fib(int n)
{
if (n <= 1)
return n;
else
return Fib(n - 1) + Fib(n - 2);
}
In Haskell:
fib :: Integer -> Integer
fib n
| n <= 1 = n
| otherwise = fib (n - 1) + fib (n - 2)
As you might know, this isn't even scratching the surface of the Haskell language, but it does a good job highlighting the syntax differences.
> No one claims that good type systems prevent buggy software. But, they do seem to improve programmer productivity.
To me it seems they reduce productivity. In fact, for Rust, which seems to match the examples you gave about locks or regions of memory the common wisdom is that it takes longer to start a project, but one reaps the benefits later thanks to more confidence when refactoring or adding code.
However, even that weaker claim hasn’t been proven.
In my experience, the more information is encoded in the type system, the more effort is required to change code. My initial enthusiasm for the idea of Ada and Spark evaporated when I saw how much ceremony the code required.
> In my experience, the more information is encoded in the type system, the more effort is required to change code.
I would tend to disagree. All that information encoded in the type system makes explicit what is needed in any case and is otherwise only carried informally in peoples' heads by convention. Maybe in some poorly updated doc or code comment where nobody finds it. Making it explicit and compiler-enforced is a good thing. It might feel like a burden at first, but you're otherwise just closing your eyes and ignoring what can end up important. Changed assumptions are immediately visible. Formal verification just pushes the boundary of that.
In practice it would be encoded in comments, automated tests and docs, with varying levels of success.
It’s actually similar to tests in a way: they provide additional confidence in the code, but at the same time ossify it and make some changes potentially more difficult.
Interestingly, they also make some changes easier, as long as not too many types/tests have to be adapted.
This reads to me like an argument for better refactoring tools, not necessarily for looser type systems. Those tools could range from mass editing tools, IDEs changing signatures in definitions when changing the callers and vice versa, to compiler modes where the language rules are relaxed.
I was thinking about C++ and if you change your mind about whether some member function or parameter should be const, it can be quite the pain to manually refactor. And good refactoring tools can make this go away. Maybe they already have, I haven’t programmed C++ for several years.
> All that information encoded in the type system makes explicit what is needed in any case and is otherwise only carried informally in peoples' heads by convention
this is, in fact better for llms, they are better at carrying information and convention in their kv cache than they are in having to figure out the actual types by jumping between files and burning tokens in context/risking losing it on compaction (or getting it wrong and having to do a compilation cycle).
if a typed language lets a developer fearlessly build a semantically inconsistent or confusing private API, then llms will perform poorer at them even though correctness is more guaranteed.
Capturing invariants in the type system is a two-edged sword.
At one end of the spectrum, the weakest type systems limit the ability of an IDE to do basic maintenance tasks (e.g. refactoring).
At the other end of the spectrum, dependent type and especially sigma types capture arbitrary properties that can be expressed in the logic. But then constructing values in such types requires providing proofs of these properties, and the code and proofs are inextricably mixed in an unmaintainable mess. This does not scale well: you cannot easily add a new proof on top of existing self-sufficient code without temporarily breaking it.
Like other engineering domains, proof engineering has tradeoffs that require expertise to navigate.
> but one reaps the benefits later thanks to more confidence when refactoring or adding code.
To be honest, I believe it makes refactoring/maintenance take longer. Sure, safer, but this is not a one-time only price.
E.g. you decide to optimize this part of the code and only return a reference or change the lifetime - this is an API-breaking change and you have to potentially recursively fix it. Meanwhile GC languages can mostly get away with a local-only change.
Don't get me wrong, in many cases this is more than worthwhile, but I would probably not choose rust for the n+1th backend crud app for this and similar reasons.
The choice of whether to use GC is completely orthogonal to that of a type system. On the contrary, being pointed at all the places that need to be recursively fixed during a refactoring is a huge saving in time and effort.
I was talking about a type system with affine types, as per the topic was Rust specifically.
I compared it to a statically typed language with a GC - where the runtime takes care of a property that Rust has to do statically, requiring more complexity.
In my opinion, programming languages with a loose type system or no explicit type system only appear to foster productivity, because it is way easier to end up with undetected mistakes that can bite later, sometimes much later. Maybe some people argue that then it is someone else's problem, but even in that case we can agree that the overall quality suffers.
"In my experience, the more information is encoded in the type system, the more effort is required to change code."
Have you seen large js codebases? Good luck changing anything in it, unless they are really, really well written, which is very rare. (My own js code is often a mess)
When you can change types on the fly somewhere hidden in code ... then this leads to the opposite of clarity for me. And so lots of effort required to change something in a proper way, that does not lead to more mess.
a) It’s fast to change the code, but now I have failures in some apparently unrelated part of the code base. (Javascript) and fixing that slows me down.
b) It’s slow to change the code because I have to re-encode all the relationships and semantic content in the type system (Rust), but once that’s done it will likely function as expected.
Depending on project, one or the other is preferable.
Or: I’m not going to do this refactor at all, even though it would improve the codebase, because it will be near impossible to ensure everything is correct after making so many changes.
To me, this has been one of the biggest advantages of both tests and types. They provide confidence to make changes without needing to be scared of unintended breakages.
There's a tradeoff point somewhere where it makes sense to go with one or another. You can write a lot of codes in bash and Elisp without having to care about the type of whatever you're manipulating. Because you're handling one type and encoding the actual values in a typesytem would be very cumbersome. But then there are other domain which are fairly known, so the investment in encoding it in a type system does pay off.
Soon a lot of people will go out of the way and try to convince you that Rust is most productive language, functions having longer signatures than their bodies is actually a virtue, and putting .clone(), Rc<> or Arc<> everywhere to avoid borrow-checker complaints makes Rust easier and faster to write than languages that doesn't force you to do so.
Of course it is a hyperbole, but sadly not that large.
> For LLMs, there is an added benefit. If you can formally specify what you want, you can make that specification your entire program. Then have an LLM driven compiler produce a provably correct implementation. This is a novel programming paradigm that has never before been possible; although every "declarative" language is an attempt to approximate it.
That is not novel and every declarative language precisely embodies it.
I think most existing declarative languages still require the programmer to specify too many details to get something usable. For instance, Prolog often requires the use of 'cut' to get reasonable performance for some problems.
Not that I can answer for OP but as a personal anecdote; I've never been more productive than writing in Rust, it's a goddamn delight. Every codebase feels like it would've been my own and you can get to speed from 0 to 100 in no time.
Yeah, I’ve been working mainly in rust for the last few years. The compile time checks are so effective that run time bugs are rare. Like you can refactor half the codebase and not run the app for a week, and when you do it just works. I’ve never had that experience in other languages.
It's a bad reason. A lot of best practices are temporary blindnesses, comparable, in some sense, with supposed love to BASIC before or despite Dijkstra. So, yes, it's possible there is no good reason. Though I don't think it's the case here.
> Complex behavior between interconnected systems, out of the purview of the formal language (OS + database + network + developer + VM + browser + user + web server)
Not really, some components like components have a lot of properties that’s very difficult to modelize. Take latency in network, or storage performance in OS.
Actually, formal verification could help massively with four of those problems — all but the first (UI/UX) and fifth (requirements will always be hard).
A change in the API of a dependency should be detected immediately and handled silently.
Reliance on unspecified behavior shouldn't happen in the first place; the client's verification would fail.
Detecting breakage caused by library changes should be where verification really shines; when you get the update, you try to re-run your verification, and if that fails, it tells you what the problem is.
As for interconnected systems, again, that's pretty much the whole point. Obviously, achieving this dream will require formalizing pretty much everything, which is well beyond our capabilities now. But eventually, with advances in AI, I think it will be possible. It will take something fundamentally better than today's LLMs, though.
That has been the problem with unit and integration tests all the time. Especially for systems that tend to be distributed.
AI makes creating mock objects much easier in some cases, but it still creates a lot of busy work and makes configuration more difficult. At at this points it often is difficult configuration management that cause the issues in the first place. Putting everything in some container doesn't help either, on the contrary.
> But I don't think that represents a lot of what most of us are tasked with
Give me a list of all the libraries you work with that don't have some sort of "okay but not that bit" rule in the business logic, or "all of those function are f(src, dst) but the one you use most is f(dst,src) and we can't change it now".
I bet it's a very short list.
Really we need to scrap every piece of software ever written and start again from scratch with all these weirdities written down so we don't do it again, but we never will.
Scrapping everything wouldn't help. 15 years ago the project I'm on did that - for a billion dollars. We fixed the old mistakes but made plenty of new ones along the way. We are trying to fix those now and I can't help but wonder what new mistakes we are making the in 15 years we will regret.
Yeah, there were about 5 or 10 videos about this "complexity" and unpredictability of 3rd parties and wheels involved that AI doesn't control and even forget - small context window - in like past few weeks. I am sure you have seen at least one of them ;)
But it's true. AI is still super narrow and dumb. Don't understand basic prompts even.
Look at the computer games now - they still don't look real despite almost 30 years since Half-life 1 started the revolution - I would claim. Damn, I think I ran it on 166 Mhz computer on some lowest details even.
Yes, it's just better and better but still looking super uncanny - at least to me. And it's been basically 30 years of constant improvements. Heck, Roomba is going bankrupt.
I am not saying things don't improve but the hype and AI bubble is insane and the reality doesn't match the expectation and predictions at all.
All non-trivial specs, like the one for seL4, are hard to verify. Lots of that complexity comes from interacting with the rest of the world which is a huge shared mutable global state you can't afford to ignore.
Of course, you can declare that the world itself is inherently sinful and imperfect, and is not ready for your beautiful theories but seriously.
> Formal verification will eventually lead to good, stable API design.
Why? Has it ever happened like this? Because to me it would seem that if the system verified to work, then it works no matter how API is shaped, so there is no incentive to change it to something better.
> Let's say formal verification could help to avoid some anti-patterns.
I'd still like to hear about the actual mechanism of this happening. Because I personally find it much easier to believe that the moment keeping the formal verification up to date becomes untenable for whatever reason (specs changing too fast, external APIs to use are too baroque, etc) people would rather say "okay, guess we ditch the formal verification and just keep maintaining the integration tests" instead of "let's change everything about the external world so we could keep our methodology".
> I am not an expert on this, but the worst API I've seen is those with hidden states.
> e.g. .toggle() API. Call it old number of times, it goes to one state, call it even number of times, it goes back.
This is literally a dumb light switch. If you have trouble proving that, starting from lights off, flicking a simple switch twice will still keep lights off then, well, I have bad news to tell you about the feasibility of using the formal methods for anything more complex than a dumb light switch. Because the rest of the world is a very complex and stateful place.
> (which itself is a state machine of some kind)
Yes? That's pretty much the raison d'être of the formal methods: for anything pure and immutable, normal intuition is usually more than enough; it's tracking the paths through enormous configuration spaces that our intuition has problem with. If the formal methods can't help with that with comparable amount of effort, then they are just not worth it.
At that point you create an entirely new API, fully versioned, and backwardly compatible (if you want it to be). The point the article is making is that AI, in theory, entirely removes the person from the coding process so there's no longer any need to maintain software. You can just make the part you're changing from scratch every time because the cost of writing bug-free code (effectively) goes to zero.
The theory is entirely correct. If a machine can write provably perfect code there is absolutely no reason to have people write code. The problem is that the 'If' is so big it can be seen from space.
100% of state changes in business software is unknowable on a long horizon, and relies on thoroughly understanding business logic that is often fuzzy, not discrete and certain.
Formal verification does not gurantee business logic works as everybody expected, nor its future proof, however, it does provide a workable path towards:
Things can only happen if only you allow it to happen.
It other words, your software may come to a stage where it's no longer applicable, but it never crashes.
Formal verification had little adoption only because it costs 23x of your original code with "PhD-level training"
The reason it doesn't work is businesses change faster than you can model every detail AND keep it all up to date. Unless you have something tying your model directly to every business decision and transaction that happens, your model will never be accurate. And if we're talking about formal verification, that makes it useless.
I think formal verification shines in areas where implementation is much more complex than the spec, like when you’re writing incomprehensible bit-level optimizations in a cryptography implementation or compiler optimization phases. I’m not sure that most of us, day-to-day, write code (or have AI write code) that would benefit from formal verification, since to me it seems like high-level programming languages are already close to a specification language. I’m not sure how much easier to read a specification format that didn’t concern itself with implementation could be, especially when we currently use all kinds of frameworks and libraries that already abstract away implementation details.
Sure, formal verification might give stronger guarantees about various levels of the stack, but I don’t think most of us care about having such strong guarantees now and I don’t think AI really introduces a need for new guarantees at that level.
> to me it seems like high-level programming languages are already close to a specification language
They are not. The power of rich and succinct specification languages (like TLA+) comes from the ability to succinctly express things that cannot be efficiently computed, or at all. That is because a description of what a program does is necessarily at a higher level of abstraction than the program (i.e. there are many possible programs or even magical oracles that can do what a program does).
To give a contrived example, let's say you want to state that a particular computation terminates. To do it in a clear and concise manner, you want to express the property of termination (and prove that the computation satisfies it), but that property is not, itself, computable. There are some ways around it, but as a rule, a specification language is more convenient when it can describe things that cannot be executed.
TLA+ is not a silver bullet, and like all temporal logic, has constraints.
You really have to be able to reduce your models to: “at some point in the future, this will happen," or "it will always be true from now on”
Have probabilistic outcomes? Or even floats [0] and it becomes challenging and strings are a mess.
> Note there is not a float type. Floats have complex semantics that are extremely hard to represent. Usually you can abstract them out, but if you absolutely need floats then TLA+ is the wrong tool for the job.
TLA+ works for the problems it is suitable for, try and extend past that and it simply fails.
> You really have to be able to reduce your models to: “at some point in the future, this will happen," or "it will always be true from now on”
You really don't. It's not LTL. Abstraction/refinement relations are at the core of TLA.
> Or even floats [0] and it becomes challenging and strings are a mess.
No problem with floats or strings as far as specification goes. The particular verification tools you choose to run on your TLA+ spec may or may not have limitations in these areas, though.
> TLA+ works for the problems it is suitable for, try and extend past that and it simply fails.
TLA+ can specify anything that could be specified in mathematics. That there is no predefined set of floats is no more a problem than the one physicists face because mathematics has no "built-in" concept for metal or temperature. TLA+ doesn't even have any built in notions of procedures, memory, instructions, threads, IO, variables in the programming sense, or, indeed programs. It is a mathematical framework for describing the behaviour of discrete or hybrid continuous-discrete dynamical systems, just as ODEs describe continuous dynamical systems.
But you're talking about the verfication tools you can run on TLA+ spec, and like all verification tools, they have their limitations. I never claimed otherwise.
You are, however, absolutely right that it's difficult to specify probabilistic properties in TLA+.
> No problem with floats or strings as far as specification goes. The particular verification tools you choose to run on your TLA+ spec may or may not have limitations in these areas, though.
I think it's disingenuous to say that TLA+ verifiers "may or may not have limitations" wrt floats when none of the available tools support floats. People should know going in that they won't be able to verify specs with floats!
I'm not sure how a "spec with floats" differs from a spec with networks, RAM, 64-bit integers, multi-level cache, or any computing concept, none of which exists as a primitive in mathematics. A floating point number is a pair of integers, or sometimes we think about it as a real number plus some error, and TLAPS can check theorems about specifications that describe floating-point operations.
Of course, things can become more involved if you want to account for overflow, but overflow can get complicated even with integers.
You say no tools but you can "verify floats" with TLAPS. I don't think that RAM or 64-bit integers have facsimiles in TLA+. They can be described mathematically in TLA+ to whatever level of detail you're interested in (e.g. you have to be pretty detailed when describing RAM when specifying a GC, and even more when specifying a CPU's memory-access subsystem), but so can floating point numbers. The least detailed description - say, RAM is just data - is not all that different from representing floats as reals (but that also requires TLAPS for verification).
The complications in describing machine-representable numbers also apply to integers, but these complications can be important, and the level of detail matters just as it matters when representing RAM or any other computing concept. Unlike, say, strings, there is no single "natural" mathematical representation of floating point numbers, just as there isn't one for software integers (integers work differently in C, Java, JS, and Zig; in some situations you may wish to ignore these differences, in others - not). You may want to think about floating point numbers as a real + error, or you may want to think about them as a mantissa-exponent pair, perhaps with overflow or perhaps without. The "right" representation of a floating point number highly depends on the properties you wish to examine, just like any other computing construct. These complications are essential, and they exist, pretty much in the same form, in other languages for formal mathematics.
P.S. for the case of computing a mean, I would use Real rather than try to model floating point if the idiosyncracies of a particular FP implementation were important. That means you can't use TLC. In some situations it could suffice to represent the mean as any number (even an integer) that is ≥ min and ≤ max, but TLC isn't very effective even for algorithms involving non-tiny sets of integers when there's "interesting" arithmetic involved.
I don't know the state of contemporary model checkers that work with theories of reals and/or FP, and I'm sure you're much more familar with that than me, but I believe that when it comes to numeric computation, deductive proofs or "sampling tests" (such as property-based testing) are still more common than model-checking. It could be interesting to add a random sampling mode to TLC that could simulate many operations on reals using BigDecimal internally.
> TLA+ can specify anything that could be specified in mathematics.
You are talking about the logic of TLA+, that is, its mathematical definition. No tool for TLA+ can handle all of mathematics at the moment. The language was designed for specifying systems, not all of mathematics.
There are excellent probabilistic extensions to temporal logic out there that are very useful to uncover subtle performance bugs in protocol specifications, see e.g. what PRISM [1] and Storm [2] implement. That is not within the scope of TLA+.
Formal methods are really broad, ranging from lightweight type systems to theorem proving. Some techniques are fantastic for one type of problem but fail at others. This is quite natural, the same thing happens with different programming paradigms.
For example, what is adequate for a hard real-time system (timed automata) is useless for a typical CRUD application.
> TLA+ is not a silver bullet, and like all temporal logic, has constraints.
>
> You really have to be able to reduce your models to: “at some point in the future, this will happen," or "it will always be true from now on”
I think people get confused by the word "temporal" in the name of TLA+. Yes, it has temporal operators. If you throw them away, TLA+ (minus the temporal operators) would be still extremely useful for specifying the behavior of concurrent and distributed systems. I have been using TLA+ for writing specifications of distributed algorithms (e.g., distributed consensus) and checking them for about 6 years now. The question of liveness comes the last, and even then, the standard temporal logics are barely suitable for expressing liveness under partial synchrony. The value of temporal properties in TLA+ is overrated.
The "temporal" in TLA+ isn't about □ and ⬦. It's about ' and the abstraction-refinment relation with stuttering at its core (contrasted with o and its non-stuttering meaning). Of course, you can't really specify anything in TLA+ without □ (unless you rely on TLC, which inserts the □ for you).
You cannot specify much in TLA+ without ' and □, andtThe "temporal" part of TLA+ - i.e. the TLA logic - is essential; but saying it's like "all temporal logics" is ignoring the abstraction-refinement relation, which is the heart of TLA+ (that's what ⇒, basic implication, in TLA+ means) and other temporal logics miss.
Of course, you could hypothetically use the + part of TLA+, the formalised set theory, to specify everything, but that would be very inconvenient.
What you said certainly works, but I'm not sure computability is actually the biggest issue here?
Have a look at how SAT solvers or Mixed Integer Linear Programming solvers are used.
There you specify a clear goal (with your code), and then you let the solvers run. You can, but you don't need to, let the solvers run all the way to optimality. And the solvers are also allowed to use all kinds of heuristics to find their answers, but that doesn't impact the statement of your objective.
Compare that to how many people write code without solvers: the objective of what your code is trying to achieve is seldom clearly spelled out, and is instead mixed up with the how-to-compute bits, including all the compromises and heuristics you make to get a reasonable runtime or to accommodate some changes in the spec your boss asked for at the last minute.
Using a solver ain't formal verification, but it shows the same separation between spec and implementation.
Another benefit of formal verification, that you already imply: your formal verification doesn't have to determine the behaviour of your software, and you can have multiple specs simultaneously. But you can only have a single implementation active at a time (even if you use a high level implementation language.)
So you can add 'handling a user request must terminate in finite time' as a (partial) spec. It's an important property, but it tells you almost nothing about the required business logic. In addition you can add "users shouldn't be able to withdraw more than they deposited" (and other more complicated rules), and you only have to review these rules once, and don't have to touch them again, even when you implement a clever new money transfer routine.
Peter Norvig once proposed to consider a really large grammar, with trillion rules, which could simulate some practically small applications of more complex systems. Many programs in practice don't need to be written in Turing-complete languages, and can be proven to terminate.
Writing in a language that guarantees termination is not very interesting in itself, as every existing program could automatically be translated into a non-Turing-complete language where the program is proven to terminate, yet behaves exactly the same: the language is the same as the original, only loops/rectursion ends the program after, say, 2^64 iterations. This, in itself, does not make programs any easier to analyse. In fact, a language that only has boolean variables, no arrays, no recursion, and loops of depth 2 at most is already instractable to verify. It is true that programs in Turing-complete languages cannot generally be verified in efficiently, but most non-Turing-complete languages also have this property.
Usually, when we're interested in termination proofs, what we're really interested in is a proof that the algorithm makes constant progress that converges on a solution.
I think the interesting progress in programs can generally be achieved for many programs, which take input and produce output and then terminate. For servers, which wait for requests, the situation seem to be different.
TLA+ is just a language for writing specifications (syntax + semantics). If you want to prove anything about it, at various degrees of confidence and effort, there are three tools:
- Apalache is the symbolic model checker that delegates verification to Z3. It can prove properties without executing anything, or rather, executing specs symbolically. For instance, it can do proofs via inductive invariants but only for bounded data structures and unbounded integers. https://apalache-mc.org/
- Finally, TLC is an enumerative model checker and simulator. It simply produces states and enumerates them. So it terminates only if the specification produces a finite number of states. It may sound like executing your specification, but it is a bit smarter, e.g., when checking invariants it will never visit the same state twice. This gives TLC the ability to reason about infinite executions. Confusingly, TLC does not have its own page, as it was the first working tool for TLA+. Many people believe that TLA+ is TLC: https://github.com/tlaplus/tlaplus
> It may sound like executing your specification, but it is a bit smarter,
It's more than just "a bit smarter" I would say, and explicit state enumeration is nothing at all like executing a spec/program. For example, TLC will check in virtually zero time a spec that describes a nondeterministic choice of a single variable x being either 0 or 1 at every step (as there are only two states). The important aspect here isn't that each execution is of infinite length, but that there are an uncountable infinity of behaviours (executions) here. This is a completely different concept from execution, and it is more similar to abstract interpretation (where the meaning of a step isn't the next state but the set of all possible next states) than to concrete interpretation.
You can write proofs in TLA+ about things you don't exectute and have them checked by the TLA+ proof assistant. But the most common aspect of that, which pretty much every TLA+ spec contains is nondeterminism, which is basically the ability to describe a system with details you don't know or care about. For example, you can describe "a program that sorts an array" without specifying how and then prove, say, that the median value ends up in the middle. The ability to specify what a program or a subroutine does without specifying how is what separates the expressive power of specification from programming. This extends not only to the program itself but to its environment. For example, it's very common in TLA+ to specify a network that can drop or reorder messages nondeterministically, and then prove that the system doesn't lose data despite that.
> To give a contrived example, let's say you want to state that a particular computation terminates. To do it in a clear and concise manner, you want to express the property of termination (and prove that the computation satisfies it), but that property is not, itself, computable. There are some ways around it, but as a rule, a specification language is more convenient when it can describe things that cannot be executed.
Do you really think it is going to be easier for the average developer to write a specification for their program that does not terminate
vs
Giving them a framework or a language that does not have for loop?
Edit: If by formal verification you mean type checking. That I very much agree.
Yes. I feel like people who are trying to push software verification have never worked on typical real-world software projects where the spec is like 100 pages long and still doesn't fully cover all the requirements and you still have to read between the lines and then requirements keep changing mid-way through the project... Implementing software to meet the spec takes a very long time and then you have to invest a lot of effort and deep thought to ensure that what you've produced fits within the spec so that the stakeholder will be satisfied. You need to be a mind-reader.
It's hard even for a human who understands the full business, social and political context to disambiguate the meaning and intent of the spec; to try to express it mathematically would be an absolute nightmare... and extremely unwise. You would literally need some kind of super intelligence... And the amount of stream-of-thought tokens which would have to be generated to arrive at a correct, consistent, unambiguous formal spec is probably going to cost more than just hiring top software engineers to build the thing with 100% test coverage of all main cases and edge cases.
Worst part is; after you do all the expensive work of formal verification; you end up proving the 'correctness' of a solution that the client doesn't want.
The refactoring required will invalidate the entire proof from the beginning. We haven't even figured out the optimal way to formally architect software that is resilient to requirement changes; in fact, the industry is REALLY BAD at this. Almost nobody is even thinking about it. I am, but I sometimes feel like I may be the only person in the world who cares about designing optimal architectures to minimize line count and refactoring diff size. We'd have to solve this problem first before we even think about formal verification of 'most software'.
Without a hypothetical super-intelligence which understands everything about the world; the risk of misinterpreting any given 'typical' requirement is almost 100%... And once we have such super-intelligence, we won't need formal verification because the super-intelligence will be able to code perfectly on the first attempt; no need to verify.
And then there's the fact that most software can tolerate bugs... If operationally important big tech software which literally has millions of concurrent users can tolerate bugs, then most software can tolerate bugs.
Software verification has gotten some use for smart contracts. The code is fairly simple, it's certain to be attacked by sophisticated hackers who know the source, and the consequence of failure is theft of funds, possibly in large amounts. 100% test coverage is no guarantee that an attack can't be found.
People spend gobs of money on human security auditors who don't necessarily catch everything either, so verification easily fits in the budget. And once deployed, the code can't be changed.
Verification has also been used in embedded safety-critical code.
If the requirements you have to satisfy arise out of a fixed, deterministic contract (as opposed to a human being), I can see how that's possible in this case.
I think the root problem may be that most software has to adapt to a constantly changing reality. There aren't many businesses which can stay afloat without ever changing anything.
The whole perspective of this argument is hard for me to grasp. I don't think anyone is suggesting that formal specs are an alternative to code, they are just an alternative to informal specs. And actually with AI the new spin is that they aren't even a mutually exclusive alternative.
A bidirectional bridge that spans multiple representations from informal spec to semiformal spec to code seems ideal. You change the most relevant layer that you're interested in and then see updates propagating semi-automatically to other layers. I'd say the jury is out on whether this uses extra tokens or saves them, but a few things we do know. Chain of code works better than chain of thought, and chain-of-spec seems like a simple generalization. Markdown-based planning and task-tracking agent workflows work better than just YOLOing one-shot changes everywhere, and so intermediate representations are useful.
It seems to me that you can't actually get rid of specs, right? So to shoot down the idea of productive cooperation between formal methods and LLM-style AI, one really must successfully argue that informal specs are inherently better than formal ones. Or even stronger: having only informal specs is better than having informal+formal.
There's always a bridge, dude. The only question is whether you want to buy one that's described as "a pretty good one, not too old, sold as is" or if you'd maybe prefer "spans X, holds Y, money back guarantee".
I get it. Sometimes complexity is justified. I just don't feel this particular bridge is justified for 'mainstream software' which is what the article is about.
I agree that trying to produce this sort of spec for the entire project is probably a fool's errand, but I still see the value for critical components of the system. Formally verifying the correctness of balance calculation from a ledger, or that database writes are always persisted to the write ahead log, for example.
I used to work adjacent to a team who worked from closely-defined specs for web sites, and it used to infuriate the living hell out of me. The specs had all sorts of horrible UI choices and bugs and stuff that just plain wouldn't work when coded. I tried my best to get them to implement the intent of the spec, not the actual spec, but they had been trained in one method only and would not deviate at any cost.
Yeah, IMO, the spec almost always needs refinement. I've worked for some companies where they tried to write specs with precision down to every word; but what happened is; if the spec was too detailed, it usually had to be adjusted later once it started to conflict with reality (efficiency, costs, security/access restrictions, resource limits, AI limitations)... If it wasn't detailed enough, then we had to read between the lines and fill in a lot of gaps... And usually had to iterate with the stakeholder to get it right.
At most other companies, it's like the stakeholder doesn't even know what they want until they start seeing things on a screen... Trying to write a formal spec when literally nobody in the universe even knows what is required; that's physically impossible.
In my view, 'Correct code' means code that does what the client needs it to do. This is downstream from it doing what the client thinks they want; which is itself downstream from it doing what the client asked for. Reminds me of this meme: https://www.reddit.com/r/funny/comments/105v2h/what_the_cust...
Software engineers don't get nearly enough credit for how difficult their job is.
There are many really important properties to enforce even on the most basic CRUD system. You can easily say things like "an anonymous user must never edit any data, except for the create account form", or "every user authorized to see a page must be listed on the admin page that lists what users can see a page".
People don't verify those because it's hard, not for lack of value.
Yeah fair enough. I can definitely see the value of property-based verification like this and agree that useful properties could be easy to express and that LLMs could feasibly verify them. I think full verification that an implementation implements an entire spec and nothing else seems much less practical even with AI, but of course that is just one flavor of verification.
> "an anonymous user must never edit any data, except for the create account form"
Can quickly end up being
> "an anonymous user must never edit any data, except for the create account form, and the feedback form"
And a week later go to
> "an anonymous user must never edit any data, except for the create account form, the feedback form, and the error submission form if they end up with a specific type of error"
And then during christmas
> > "an anonymous user must never edit any data, except for the create account form, the feedback form, and the error submission form if they end up with a specific type of error, and the order submission form if they visit it from this magic link. Those visiting from the magic link, should not be able to use the feedback form (marge had a bad experience last christmas going through feedbacks from the promotional campaign)"
It is still a small rule, with plenty of value. It's nowhere near the size of the access control for the entire site. And it's also not written down by construction.
It changing with time doesn't make any of that change.
Yes, except their cookie preferences to comply with european law. Oh, and they should be able to change their theme from light/dark but only that. Oh and maybe this other thing. Except in situations where it would conflict with current sales promotions. Unless they're referred by a reseller partner. Unless it's during a demo, of course. etc, etc, etc.
This is the sort of reality that a lot of developers in the business world deals with.
I think we've become used to the complexity in typical web applications, but there's a difference between familiar and simple (simple vs. easy, as it were). The behavior of most business software can be very simply expressed using simple data structures (sets, lists, maps) and simple logic.
No matter how much we simply it, via frameworks and libraries or whatever have you, things like serialization, persistence, asynchrony, concurrency, and performance end up complicating the implementation. Comparing this against a simpler spec is quite nice in practice - and a huge benefit is now you can consult a simple in-memory spec vs. worrying about distributed system deployments.
> especially when we currently use all kinds of frameworks and libraries that already abstract away implementation details.
This is my issue with algorithm driven interviewing. Even the creator of Homebrew got denied by Google because he couldn't do some binary sort or whatever it even was. He made a tool used by millions of developers, but apparently that's not good enough.
Google denies qualified people all the time. They would much rather reject a great hire than take a risk on accepting a mediocre one. I feel for him but it's just the nature of the beast. Not everyone will get in.
This language sounds like chauvinism leading to closed-mindedness and efficiency. Of course there are tradeoffs to chauvinism, as Googlers possess the mind to notice. But a Googler does not need to worry about saying ambiguous truths without understanding their emotions to the masses, for they have Google behind them. With the might of the G stick, they can hammer out words with confidence.
The intent isn't to find good hires per se, but to whittle down the list of applicants to a manageable number in a way that doesn't invite discrimination lawsuits.
Same as why companies in the past used to reject anyone without a degree. But then everyone got a degree, leaving it to no longer be an effective filter, hence things like algorithm tests showing up to fill the void.
Once you've narrowed the list, then you can worry about figuring out who is "good" through giving the remaining individuals additional attention.
I have a suspicion that "good candidate" is being gerrymandered. What might have been "good" in 1990 might have become irrelevant in 2000+ or perhaps detrimental. I say that as someone who is actually good at algorithm questions himself. I think GP, as well as other Google defenders, are parroting pseudo-science.
I agree. But also if it works to get you jobs there, why wouldn't you defend it? I mean I might be inclined to do so as well, it guarantees me a place even if I lack soft skills for the role.
AWS has said that having formal verification of code lets them be more aggressive in optimization while being confidant it still adheres to the spec. They claim they were able to double the speed of IAM API auth code this way.
I'm convinced now that the key to getting useful results out of coding agents (Claude Code, Codex CLI etc) is having good mechanisms in place to help those agents exercise and validate the code they are writing.
At the most basic level this means making sure they can run commands to execute the code - easiest with languages like Python, with HTML+JavaScript you need to remind them that Playwright exists and they should use it.
The next step up from that is a good automated test suite.
Then we get into quality of code/life improvement tools - automatic code formatters, linters, fuzzing tools etc.
Debuggers are good too. These tend to be less coding-agent friendly due to them often having directly interactive interfaces, but agents can increasingly use them - and there are other options that are a better fit as well.
I'd put formal verification tools like the ones mentioned by Martin on this spectrum too. They're potentially a fantastic unlock for agents - they're effectively just niche programming languages, and models are really good at even niche languages these days.
If you're not finding any value in coding agents but you've also not invested in execution and automated testing environment features, that's probably why.
I very much agree, and believe using languages with powerful types systems could be a big step in this direction. Most people's first experience with Haskell is "wow this is hard to write a program in, but when I do get it to compile, it works". If this works for human developers, it should also work for LLMs (especially if the human doesn't have to worry about the 'hard to write a program' part).
> The next step up from that is a good automated test suite.
And if we're going for a powerful type system, then we can really leverage the power of property tests which are currently grossly underused. Property tests are a perfect match for LLMs because they allow the human to create a small number of tests that cover a very wide surface of possible errors.
The "thinking in types" approach to software development in Haskell allows the human user to keep at a level of abstraction that still allows them to reason about critical parts of the program while not having to worry about the more tedious implementation parts.
Given how much interest there has been in using LLMs to improve Lean code for formal proofs in the math community, maybe there's a world where we make use of an even more powerful type systems than Haskell. If LLMs with the right language can help prove complex mathematical theorems, they it should certain be possible to write better software with them.
That's my opinion as well. Some functional language, that can also offer access to imperative features when needed, plus an expressive type system might be the future.
My bet is on refinement types. Dafny fits that bill quite well, it's simple, it offers refinement types, and verification is automated with SAT/SMT.
In fact, there are already serious industrial efforts to generate Dafny using LLMs.
Besides, some of the largest verification efforts have been achieved with this language [1].
This is why I use Go as much as reasonably possible with vibe coding: types, plus great quality-checking ecosystem, plus adequate training data, plus great distribution story. Even when something has stuff like JS and Python SDKs, I tend to skip them and go straight to the API with Go.
I love ML types, but I've concluded they serve humans more than they do agents. I'm sure it affects the agent, maybe just not as much as other choices.
I've noticed real advantages of functional languages to agents, for disposable code. Which is great, cos we can leverage those without dictating the human's experience.
I think the correct way forward is to choose whatever language the humans on your team agree is most useful. For my personal projects, that means a beautiful language for the bits I'll be touching, and whatever gets the job done elsewhere.
Even going beyond Ada into dependently typed languages like (quoth wiki) "Agda, ATS, Rocq (previously known as Coq), F*, Epigram, Idris, and Lean"
I think there are some interesting things going on if you can really tightly lock down the syntax to some simple subset with extremely straightforward, powerful, and expressive typing mechanisms.
Isn‘t it funny how that’s exactly the kind of stuff that helps a human developer be successful and productive, too?
Or, to put it the other way round, what kind of tech leads would we be if we told our junior engineers „Well, here’s the codebase, that’s all I‘ll give you. No debuggers, linters, or test runners for you. Using a browser on your frontend implementation? Nice try buddy! Now good luck getting those requirements implemented!“
> Isn‘t it funny how that’s exactly the kind of stuff that helps a human developer be successful and productive, too?
I think it's more nuanced than that. As a human, I can manually test code in ways an AI still can't. Sure, maybe it's better to have automated test suites, but I have other options too.
Yeah, but it doesn't work nearly as well. The AI frequently misinterprets what it sees. And it isn't as good at actually using the website (or app, or piece of hardware, etc) as a human would.
I've been using Claude to implement an ISO specification and I have to keep telling it we're not interested if the repl is correct but that the test suite is ensuring the implementation is correctly following the spec. But when we're tracking down why a test is failing then it'll go to town using the repl to narrow down out what code path is causing the issue. The only reason there's even is a repl at this point is so it can do its 'spray and pray' debugging outside the code and Claude constantly tried to use it to debug issues so I gave in and had it write a pretty basic one.
Horses for courses, I suppose. Back in the day, when I wanted to play with some C(++) library, I'd quite often write a Python C-API extension so I could do the same thing using Python's repl.
The recent models are pretty great at this. They read the source code for e.g. a Python web application and use that to derive what the URLs should be. Then they fire up a localhost development server and write Playwright scripts to interact with those pages at the predicted URLs.
The vision models (Claude Opus 4.5, Gemini 3 Pro, GPT-5.2) can even take screenshots via Playwright and then "look at them" with their vision capabilities.
It's a lot of fun to watch. You can tell them to run Playwright not in headless mode at which point a Chrome window will pop up on your computer and you can see them interact with the site via it.
Claude Code was a big jump for me. Another large-ish jump was multi-agents and following the tips from Anthropic’s long running harnesses post.
I don’t go into Claude without everything already setup. Codex helps me curate the plan, and curate the issue tracker (one instance). Claude gets a command to fire up into context, grab an issue - implements it, and then Codex and Gemini review independently.
I’ve instructed Claude to go back and forth for as many rounds as it takes. Then I close the session (\new) and do it again. These are all the latest frontier models.
This is incredibly expensive, but it’s also the most reliable method I’ve found to get high-quality progress — I suspect it has something to do with ameliorating self-bias, and improving the diversity of viewpoints on the code.
I suspect rigorous static tooling is yet another layer to improve the distribution over program changes, but I do think that there is a big gap in folk knowledge already between “vanilla agents” and something fancy with just raw agents, and I’m not sure if just the addition of more rigorous static tooling (beyond the compiler) closes it.
If you're maxing out the plans across the platforms, that's 600 bucks -- but if you think about your usage and optimize, I'm guessing somewhere between 200-600 dollars per month.
It's pretty easy to hit a couple hundred dollars a day filling up Opus's context window with files. This is via Anthropic API and Zed.
Going full speed ahead building a Rails app from scratch it seemed like I was spending $50/hour, but it was worth it because the App was finished in a weekend instead of weeks.
I can't bear to go in circles with Sonnet when Opus can just one shot it.
Anthropic via Azure has sent me an invoice of around $8000 for 3-5 days of Opus 4.1 usage and there is no way to track how many tokens during those days and how many cached etc. (And I thought its part of the azure sponsorship but that's another story)
I think the main limitation is not code validation but assumption verification. When you ask an LLM to write some code based on a few descriptive lines of text, it is, by necessity, making a ton of assumptions. Oddly, none of the LLM's I've seen ask for clarification when multiple assumptions might all be likely. Moreover, from the behavior I've seen, they don't really backtrack to select a new assumption based on further input (I might be wrong here, it's just a feeling).
What you don't specify, it must to assume. And therein lies a huge landscape of possibilities. And since the AI's can't read your mind (yet), its assumptions will probably not precisely match your assumptions unless the task is very limited in scope.
> Oddly, none of the LLM's I've seen ask for clarification when multiple assumptions might all be likely.
It's not odd, they've just been trained to give helpful answers straight away.
If you tell them not to make assumptions and to rather first ask you all their questions together with the assumptions they would make because you want to confirm before they write the code, they'll do that too. I do that all the time, and I'll get a list of like 12 things to confirm/change.
That's the great thing about LLM's -- if you want them to change their behavior, all you need to do is ask.
OK but if the verification loop really makes the agents MUCH more useful, then this usefulness difference can be used as a training signal to improve the agents themselves. So this means the current capabilities levels are certainly not going to remain for very long (which is also what I expect but I would like to point out it's also supported by this)
Source code generation is possible due to large training set and effort put into reinforcing better outcomes.
I suspect debugging is not that straightforward to LLM'ize.
It's a non-sequential interaction - when something happens, it's not necessarily caused the problem, timeline may be shuffled. LLM would need tons of examples where something happens in debugger or logs and associate it with another abstraction.
I was debugging something in gdb recently and it was a pretty challenging bug. Out of interest I tried chatgpt, and it was hopeless - try this, add this print etc. That's not how you debug multi-threaded and async code. When I found the root cause, I was analyzing how I did it and where did I learn that specific combination of techniques, each individually well documented, but never in combination - it was learning from other people and my own experience.
No, I'm in academia and the goal is not code or product launch. I find research process to struggle a lot once someone solves a problem instead of you.
I understand that AI can help with writing, coding, analyzing code bases and summarizing other papers, but going through these myself makes a difference, at least for me. I tried ChatGPT 3.5 when I started and while I got a pile of work done, I had to throw it away at some point because I didn't fully understand it. AI could explain to me various parts, but it's different when you create it.
For interactive programs like this, I use tmux and mention "send-keys" and "capture-pane" and it's able to use it to drive an interactive program. My demo/poc for this is making the agent play 20 questions with another agent via tmux
LLMs are okay at bisecting programs and identifying bugs in my experience. Sometimes they require guidance but often enough I can describe the symptom and they identify the code causing the issue (and recommend a fix). They’re fairly methodical, and often ask me to run diagnostic code (or do it themselves).
I've only done a tiny bit of agent-assisted coding, but without the ability to run tests the AI will really go off the rails super quick, and it's kinda hilarious to watch it say "Aha! I know what the problem is!" over and over as it tries different flavors until it gives up.
I might go further and suggest that the key to getting useful results out of HUMAN coding agents is also to have good mechanisms in place to help them exercise and validate the code.
We valued automated tests and linters and fuzzers and documentation before AI, and that's because it serves the same purpose.
> At the most basic level this means making sure they can run commands to execute the code - easiest with languages like Python, with HTML+JavaScript you need to remind them that Playwright exists and they should use it.
So I've been exploring the idea of going all-in on this "basic level" of validation. I'm assembling systems out of really small "services" (written in Go) that Claude Code can immediately run and interact with using curl, jq, etc. Plus when building a particular service I already have all of the downstream services (the dependencies) built and running so a lot of dependency management and integration challenges disappear. Only trying this out at a small scale as yet, but it's fascinating how the LLMs can potentially invert a lot of the economics that inform the current conventional wisdom.
My intuition is that LLMs will for many use cases lead us away from things like formal verification and even comprehensive test suites. The cost of those activities is justified by the larger cost of fixing things in production; I suspect that we will eventually start using LLMs to drive down the cost of production fixes, to the point where a lot of those upstream investments stop making sense.
> My intuition is that LLMs will for many use cases lead us away from things like formal verification and even comprehensive test suites. The cost of those activities is justified by the larger cost of fixing things in production; I suspect that we will eventually start using LLMs to drive down the cost of production fixes, to the point where a lot of those upstream investments stop making sense.
There is still a cost to having bugs, even if deploying fixes becomes much cheaper. Especially if your plan is to wait until they actually occur in practice to discover that you have a bug in the first place.
Put differently: would you want the app responsible for your payroll to be developed in this manner? Especially considering that the bug in question would be "oops, you didn't get paid."
Claude code and other AI coding tools must have a * mandatory * hook for verification.
For front end - the verification is make sure that the UI looks expected (can be verified by an image model) and clicking certain buttons results in certain things (can be verified by chatgpt agent but its not public ig).
For back end it will involve firing API requests one by one and verifying the results.
To make this easier, we need to somehow give an environment for claude or whatever agent to run these verifications on and this is the gap that is missing.
Claude Code, Codex should now start shipping verification environments that make it easy for them to verify frontend and backend tasks and I think antigravity already helps a bit here.
------
The thing about backend verification is that it is different in different companies and requires a custom implementation that can't easily be shared across companies. Each company has its own way to deploy stuff.
Imagine a concrete task like creating a new service that reads from a data stream, runs transformations, puts it in another data stream where another new service consumes the transformed data and puts it into an AWS database like Aurora.
```
stream -> service (transforms) -> stream -> service -> Aurora
```
To one shot this with claude code, it must know everything about the company
- how does one consume streams in the company? Schema registry?
- how does one create a new service and register dependencies? how does one deploy it to test environment and production?
- how does one even create an Aurora DB? request approvals and IAM roles etc?
My question is: what would it take for Claude Code to one shot this? At the code level it is not too hard and it can fit in context window easily but the * main * problem is the fragmented processes in creating the infra and operations behind it which is human based now (and need not be!).
-----
My prediction is that companies will make something like a new "agent" environment where all these processes (that used to require a human) can be done by an agent without human intervention.
I'm thinking of other solutions here, but if anyone can figure it out, please tell!
Maybe in the short term, but that doesn't solve some fundamental problems. Consider, NP problems, problems whose solutions can be easily verified. But that they can all be easily verified does not (as far as we know) mean they can all be easily solved. If we look at the P subset of NP, the problems that can be easily solved, then the easy verification is no longer their key feature. Rather, it is something else that distinguishes them from the harder problems in NP.
So let's say that, similarly, there are programming tasks that are easier and harder for agents to do well. If we know that a task is in the easy category, of course having tests is good, but since we already know that an agent does it well, the test isn't the crucial aspect. On the other hand, for a hard task, all the testing in the world may not be enough for the agent to succeed.
Longer term, I think it's more important to understand what's hard and what's easy for agents.
> At the most basic level this means making sure they can run commands to execute the code
Yeah, it's gonna be fun waiting for compilation cycles when those models "reason" with themselves about a semicolon. I guess we just need more compute...
One objection: all the "don't use --yolo" training in the world is useless if a sufficiently context-poisoned LLM starts putting malware in the codebase and getting to run it under the guise of "unit tests".
For now, this is mitigated by only including trusted content in the context; for instance, absolutely do not allow it to access general web content.
I suspect that as it becomes more economical to play with training your own models, people will get better at including obscured malicious content in data that will be used during training, which could cause the LLM to intrinsically carry a trigger/path that would cause malicious content to be output by the LLM under certain conditions.
And of course we have to worry about malicious content being added to sources that we trust, but that already exists - we as an industry typically pull in public repositories without a complete review of what we're pulling. We outsource the verification to the owners of the repository. Just as we currently have cases of malicious code sneaking into common libraries, we'll have malicious content targeted at LLMs
shameless plug: I'm working on an open source project https://blocksai.dev/ to attempt to solve this. (and just added a note for me to add formal verification)
Elevator pitch: "Blocks is a semantic linter for human-AI collaboration. Define your domain in YAML, let anyone (humans or AI) write code freely, then validate for drift. Update the code or update the spec, up to human or agent."
(you can add traditional linters to the process if you want but not necessary)
The gist being you define a bunch of validators for a collection of modules you're building (with agentic coding) with a focus on qualifying semantic things;
- domain / business rules/measures
- branding
- data flow invariants — "user data never touches analytics without anonymization"
- accessibility
- anything you can think of
Then you just tell your agentic coder to use the cli tool before committing, so it keeps the code in line with your engineering/business/philosophical values.
(boring) example of it detecting if blog posts have humour in them, running in Claude Code -> https://imgur.com/diKDZ8W
Reminder YAML is a serialization format. IaC standardizing on it (hashicorp being an outlier) was a mistake. It’s a good compilation target, but please add a higher level language for whatever you’re doing.
I've tried getting claude to set up testing frameworks, but what ends up happening is it either creates canned tests, or it forgets about tests, or it outright lies about making tests. It's definitely helpful, but feels very far from a robust thing to rely on. If you're reviewing everything the AI does then it will probably work though.
Something I find helps a lot is having a template for creating a project that includes at least one passing test. That way the agent can run the tests at the start using the correct test harness and then add new tests as it goes along.
LLMs are very good at looking at a change set and finding untested paths. As a standard part of my workflow, I always pass the LLM's work through a "reviewer", which is a fresh LLM session with instructions to review the uncommitted changes. I include instructions for reviewing test coverage.
I've also found that LLMs typically just partially implement a given task/story/spec/whatever. The reviewer stage will also notice a mismatch between the spec and the implementation.
I have an orchestrator bounce the flow back and forth between developing and reviewing until the review comes back clean, and only then do I bother to review its work. It saves so much time and frustration.
Not so sure about formal verification though. ime with Rust LLM agents tend to struggle with semi-complex ownership or trait issues and will typically reach for unnecessary/dangerous escape hatches ("unsafe impl Send for ..." instead of using the correct locks, for example) fairly quickly. Or just conclude the task is impossible.
> automatic code formatters
I haven't tried this because I assumed it'll destroy agent productivity and massively increase number of tokens needed, because you're changing the file out under the LLM and it ends up constantly re-reading the changed bits to generate the correct str_replace JSON. Or are they smart enough that this quickly trains them to generate code with zero-diff under autoformatting?
But in general of course anything that's helpful for human developers to be more productive will also help LLMs be more productive. For largely identical reasons.
I've directly faced this problem with automatic code formatters, but it was back around Claude 3.5 and 3.7. It would consistently write nonconforming code - regardless of having context demanding proper formatting. This caused both extra turns/invocations with the LLM and would cause context issues - both filling the context with multiple variants of the file and also having a confounding/polluting/poisoning effect due to having these multiple variations.
I haven't had this problem in a while, but I expect current LLMs would probably handle those formatting instructions more closely than the 3.5 era.
I'm finding my agents generate code that conforms to Black quite effectively, I think it's probably because I usually start them in existing projects that were already formatted using Black so they pick up those patterns.
I still quite often have even Opus 4.5 generate empty indented lines (regardless of explicit instructions in AGENTS.md not to (besides explicitly referencing the style guide as well), the code not containing any before and the auto-formatter removing them), for example. Trailing whitespace is much rarer but happens as well. Personally I don't care too much, since I've found LLMs to be most efficient when performing roughly the work of a handful commits at most in one thread, so I let the pre-commit hook sort it out after being done with a thread.
The funny part of “AI will make formal verification go mainstream” is that it skips over the one step the industry still refuses to do: decide what the software is supposed to do in the first place.
We already have a ton of orgs that can’t keep a test suite green or write an honest invariant in a code comment, but somehow we’re going to get them to agree on a precise spec in TLA+/Dafny/Lean and treat it as a blocking artifact? That’s not an AI problem, that’s a culture and incentives problem.
Where AI + “formal stuff” probably does go mainstream is at the boring edges: property-based tests, contracts, refinement types, static analyzers that feel like linters instead of capital‑P “Formal Methods initiatives”. Make it look like another checkbox in CI and devs will adopt it; call it “verification” and half the org immediately files it under “research project we don’t have time for”.
> it skips over the one step the industry still refuses to do: decide what the software is supposed to do in the first place.
Not only that, but it's been well-established that a significant challenge with formally verified software is to create the right spec -- i.e. one that actually satisfies the intended requirements. A formally verified program can still have bugs, because the spec (which requires specialized skills to read and understand) may not satisfy the intent of the requirements in some way.
So the fundamental issue/bottleneck that emerges is the requirements <=> spec gap, which closing the spec <=> executable gap does nothing to address. Translating people's needs to an empirical, maintainable spec of one type or another will always require skilled humans in the loop, regardless of how easy everything else gets -- at minimum as a responsibility sink, but even more as a skilled technical communicator. I don't think we realize how valuable it is to PMs/executives and especially customers to be understood by a skilled, trustworthy technical person.
> A formally verified program can still have bugs, because the spec (which requires specialized skills to read and understand) may not satisfy the intent of the requirements in some way.
That's not a bug, that's a misunderstanding, or at least an error of translation from natural language to formal language.
Edit:
I agree that one can categorize incorrect program behavior as a bug (apparently there's such a thing as "behavioral bug"), but to me it seems to be a misnomer.
I also agree that it's difficult to tell that to a customer when their expectations aren't met.
In some definitions (that I happen to agree with but because we wanted to save money by first not properly training testers and then getting rid of them is not present so much in public discourse) the purpose of testing (or better said quality control) is:
1) Verify requirements => this can be done with formal verifications
2) Validate fit for purpose => this is where we make sure that if the customer needs addition it does not matter if our software does very well substraction and it has a valid proof of doing that according with specs.
I know this second part is kinda lost in the transition from oh my god waterfall is bad to yeyy now we can fire all testers because the quality is the responsibility of the entire team.
>an error of translation from natural language to formal language
Really? Programming languages are all formal languages, which means all human-made errors in algorithms wouldn't be "bugs" anymore. Some projects even categorize typos as bugs, so that's a unusually strict definition of "bug" in my opinion.
Sure, I guess you can understand what I said that way, but that's not what I meant. I wasn't thinking about the implementation, but the specifications.
Read again the quote I was refering to if you need better context to understand my comment.
If you have good formal specifications, you should be able to produce the corresponding code. Any error in that phase should be considered a bug, and yes, a typo should fit that category, if it makes the code deviate from the specs.
But an error in the step of translating the requirements (usually explained in natural language) to specifications (usually described formally) isn't a bug, it's a translation error.
Most formal "specs" (the part that defines the system's actual behavior) are just code. So a formally verified (or compiled) spec is really just a different programming language, or something layered on top of existing code. Like TypeScript types are a non-formal but empirical verification layer on top of JavaScript.
The hard part remains: translating from human-communicated requirements to a maintainable spec (formally verified or not) that completely defines the module's behavior.
> decide what the software is supposed to do in the first place.
That's where the job security is (and always has been). This has been my answer to "are you afraid for your job because of AI?"
Writing the code is very rarely the hard part. The hard part is getting a spec from the PM, or gathering requirements stakeholders. And then telling them why the spec / their requirements don't make sense or aren't feasible, and figuring out ones that will actually achieve their goals.
There are some basic invariants like "this program should not crash on any input" or "this service should be able to handle requests that look like X up to N per second" — though I expect those will be the last to be amenable to formal verification, they are also very simple ones that (when they become possible) will be easy to write down.
> "this program should not crash on any input" [...] though I expect those will be the last to be amenable to formal verification,
In the world of Rust, this is actually the easiest to achieve level of formal proofs.
Simple lints can eliminate panics and potentially-panicking operations (forcing you/LLM to use variants with runtime error handling, e.g. `s[i]` can become `s.get(i).unwrap_or(MyError::RuhRoh)?`, or more purpose-specific handling; same thing for e.g. enforcing that arithmetic never underflows/overflows).
Kani symbolically evaluates simple Rust functions and ensures that the function does not panic on any possible value on it's input, and on top of that you can add invariants to be enforced (e.g. search for an item in an array always returns either None or a valid index, and the value at that index fulfills the search criteria).
(The real challenge with e.g. Kani is structuring a codebase such that it has those simple-enough subparts where formal methods are feasible.)
OP seems not broadly applicative to corporate software development.
Rather, it's directed at the kind of niche, mission-critical things, that not all of which are getting the formal verification solution that is needed for them and/or that don't get considered due to high costs (due to specialization skill).
I read OP as a realization that the costs have fallen, and thus we should see formal verification more than before.
"That doesn’t mean software will suddenly be bug-free. As the verification process itself becomes automated, the challenge will move to correctly defining the specification: that is, how do you know that the properties that were proved are actually the properties that you cared about? Reading and writing such formal specifications still requires expertise and careful thought. But writing the spec is vastly easier and quicker than writing the proof by hand, so this is progress."
General security properties come to mind as one area that could have good reusability for specs.
"decide what the software is supposed to do in the first place."
After 20 years of software development I think that is because most of the software out there, is the method itself of finding out what it's supposed to do.
The incomplete specs are not lacking feature requirements due to lack of discipline. It's because nobody can even know without trying it out what the software should be.
I mean of course there is a subset of all software that can be specified before hand - but a lot of it is not.
Knuth could be that forward thinking with TeX for example only because he had 500 years of book printing tradition to fall back on to backport the specs to math.
This smells like a Principia Mathematica take to me...
Reducing the problem to "ya just create a specification to formally verify" doesn't move the needle enough to me.
When it comes to real-world, pragmatic, boots-on-the-ground engineering and design, we are so far from even knowing the right questions to ask. I just don't buy it that we'd see huge mainstream productivity changes even if we had access to a crystal ball.
Its hilarious how close we're getting to Hitch hikers guide to the galaxy though. We're almost at that phase where we ask what the question is supposed to be.
Nope; you are quite wrong here. Most people have no idea of what Formal Specification/Verification via the usage of Formal Methods really means.
It is first and foremost about learning a way of thinking. Tools only exist to augment and systematize this thinking into a methodology. There are different levels of "Formal Methods Thinking" starting with informal all the way to completely rigorous. Understanding and using these methods of thinking as the "interface" to specify a problem to an AI agent/LLM is what is important to ensure "correctness by construction to a specification".
One may ask What good is FM? Who needs it? Millions of programmers work everyday without it. Many think that FM in a CS curriculum is peddling the idea that Formal Logic (e.g.,propositional or predicate logic) is required for everyday programmers, that they need it to write programs that are more likely to be correct, and correspondingly less likely to fail the tests to which they
subsequently (of course) must still be subjected. However, this degree of formality is not necessarily needed. What is required of everyday programmers is that, as they write their programs, they think — and code — in a way that respects a correctness-oriented point of view. Assertions can be written informally, in natural language: just the “thinking of what those assertions might be” guides the program-construction process in an astonishingly effective way. What is also required are the engineering principles referred to above. Connecting programs with their specifications through assertions provides training on abstraction, which, in turn, encourages simplicity and focus, helping build more robust, flexible and usable systems.
The answer to “Who needs it?” is that everyday programmers and software developers indeed may not need to know the theory of FM. But they do need to know is how to practise it, even if with a light touch, benefiting from its precepts. FM theory, which is what explains — to the more mathematically inclined — why FM works, has become confused with the FM practice of using the
theory’s results to benefit from what it assures. Any “everyday programmer” can do that...except that most do not.
The paper posits 3 levels of "Formal Methods Thinking" viz.
a) Level 1 (“What’s True Here”). Level 1 of FM thinking is the application of FM in its most basic form. Students develop abilities to understand their programs and reason about their correctness using informal descriptions. By “What’s True Here”, we mean including natural language prose or informal diagrams to describe the properties that are true at different points of a program’s execution rather than the operations that brought them about.
b) Level 2 (Formal Assertions). Level 2 introduces greater precision to Level 1 by teaching students to write assertions that incorporate arithmetic and logical operators to capture FM thinking more rigorously. This may be accompanied by lightweight tools that can be used to test or check that their assertions hold.
c) Level 3 (Full Verification). This level enables students to prove program properties using tools such as a theorem prover, model checker or SMT solver. But in addition to tool-based checking of properties (now written using a formal language), this level can formally emphasise other aspects of system-level correctness, such as structural induction and termination.
no ! a _design_ document. how this new thing will fit together with other things that are already existing in the system. what it’s interactions are going to look like, what are the assumptions, what are the limitations etc etc.
Honestly? I usually look at the previous implementation and try to make some changes to fix an issue that I discovered during testing. Rarely an actual bug - usually we just changed our mind about what the intent should be.
I was waiting for a post like this to hit the front page of Hacker News any day. Ever since Opus 4.5 and GPT 5.2 came out (mere weeks ago), I've been writing tens of thousands of lines of Lean 4 in a software engineering job and I feel like we are on the eve of a revolution. What used to take me 6 months of work when I was doing my PhD in Coq (now Rocq), now takes from a few hours to a few days. Whole programming languages can get formalized executable semantics in little time. Lean 4 already has a gigantic amount of libraries for math but also for computer science; I expect open source projects to sprout with formalizations of every language, protocol, standard, algorithm you can think of.
Even if you have never written formal proofs but are intrigued by them, try asking a coding agent to do some basic verification. You will not regret it.
Formal proof is not just about proving stuff, it's also about disproving stuff, by finding counterexamples. Once you have stated your property, you can let quickcheck/plausible attack it, possibly helped by a suitable generator which does not have to be random: it can be steered by an LLM as well.
Even further, I'm toying with the idea of including LLMs inside the formalization itself. There is an old and rich idea in the domain of formal proof, that of certificates: rather than proving that the algorithm that produces a result is correct, just compute a checkable certificate with untrusted code and verify it is correct. Checkable certificates can be produced by unverified programs, humans, and now LLMs. Properties, invariants, can all be "guessed" without harm by an LLM and would still have to pass a checker. We have truly entered an age of oracles. It's not halting-problem-oracle territory of course, but it sometimes feels pretty close for practical purposes. LLMs are already better at math than most of us and certainly than me, and so any problem I could plausibly solve on my own, they will do faster without my having to wonder if there is a subtle bug in the proof. I still need to look at the definitions and statements, of course, but my role has changed from finding to checking. Exploring the space of possible solutions is now mostly done better and faster by LLMs. And you can run as many in parallel as you can keep up with, in attention and in time (and money).
If anyone else is as excited about all this as I am, feel free to reach out in comments, I'd love to hear about people's projects !
People are sleeping on the new models being capable of this, 100%. Been telling Opus to make Alloy specs recently and it… just does. Ensuring conformance is rapidly becoming affordable, folks in this thread needed to update their priors!
Do you now use Lean instead of Rocq because your new employer happened to prefer that, or is it superior in your opinion? Which one would you recommend to look at first?
I can't disclose that, but what I can say is no one at my company writes Lean yet. I'm basically experimenting with formalizing in Lean stuff I normally do in other languages, and getting results exciting enough I hope to trigger adoption internally. But this is bigger than any single company!
This is perhaps only tangentially related to formal verification, but it made me wonder - what efforts are there, if any, to use LLMs to help with solving some of the tough questions in math and CS (P=NP, etc)? I'd be curious to know how a mathematician would approach that.
So as for math of that level, (the best) humans are still kings by far. But things are moving quickly and there is very exciting human-machine collaboration, one need only look at recent interviews of Terence Tao!
I agree. I think we've gotta get through the rough couple of "AI slop" years of code and we'll come out of it the other side with some incredible tools.
The reason we don't all write code to the level that can operate the Space Shuttle is because we don't have the resources and the projects most of us work on all allow some wiggle room for bugs since lives generally aren't at risk. But we'd all love to check in code that was verifiably bug-free, exploit-free, secure etc if we could get that at a low, low price.
at some level it's not really an engineering issue. "bug free" requires that there is some external known goal with sufficient fidelity that it can classify all behaviors as "bug" or "not bug". This really doesn't exist in the vast majority of software projects. It is of course occasionally true that programmers are writing code that explicitly doesn't meet one of the requirements they were given, but most of the time the issue is that nothing was specified for certain cases, so code does whatever was easiest to implement. It is only when encountering those unspecified cases (either via a user report, or product demo, or manual QA) that the behavior is classified as "bug" or "not bug".
I don't see how AI would help with that even if it made writing code completely free. Even if the AI is writing the spec and fully specifies all possible outcomes, the human reviewing it will glance over the spec and approve it only to change their mind when confrunted with the actual behavior or user reports.
What if the AI kept bringing up unspecified cases and all you (the human) had to do all day was respond to it on what the behavior should be in each case? In this model the AI would not specify the outcomes; the specification is whatever you initially specified, and your responses to the AI's questions about the outcomes. At some point you'd decide that you'd answered enough questions (or the AI could not come up with any more unspecified cases), and bugs would be in what remained, but it would still mean substantially more thinking about cases than now.
This sounds amazing! What kind of systems take you a few hours to a few days now? Just curious whether it works in a niche (like sequential code), or does it work for concurrent and distributed systems as well?
> it’s not hard to extrapolate and imagine that process becoming fully automated in the next few years. And when that happens, it will totally change the economics of formal verification.
There is a problem with this argument similar to one made about imagining the future possibilities of vibe coding [1]: once we imagine AI to do this task, i.e. automatically prove software correct, we can just as easily imagine it to not have to do it (for us) in the first place. If AI can do the hardest things, those it is currently not very good at doing, there's no reason to assume it won't be able to do easier things/things it currently does better. In particular, we won't need it to verify our software for us, because there's no reason to believe that it won't be able to come up with what software we need better than us in the first place. It will come up with the idea, implement it, and then decide to what extent to verify it. Formal verification, or programming for that matter, will not become mainstream (as a human activity) but go extinct.
Indeed, it is far easier for humans to design and implement a proof assistant than it is to use one to verify a substantial computer program. A machine that will be able to effectively use a proof checker, will surely be able to come up with a novel proof checker on its own.
I agree it's not hard to extrapolate technological capabilities, but such extrapolation has a name: science fiction. Without a clear understanding of what makes things easier or harder for AI (in the near future), any prediction is based on arbitrary guesses that AI will be able to do X yet not Y. We can imagine any conceivable capability or limitation we like. In science fiction we see technology that's both capable and limited in some rather arbitrary ways.
It's like trying to imagine what problems computers can and cannot efficiently solve before discovering the notion of compuational complexity classes.
I disagree. Right now, feedback on correctness is a major practical limitation on the usefulness of AI coding agents. They can fix compile errors on their own, they can _sometimes_ fix test errors on their own, but fixing functionality / architecture errors takes human intervention. Formal verification basically turns (a subset of) functionality errors into compile errors, making the feedback loop much stronger. "Come up with what software we need better than us in the first place" is much higher on the ladder than that.
TL;DR: We don't need to be radically agnostic about the capabilities of AI-- we have enough experience already with the software value chain (with and without AI) for formal verification to be an appealing next step, for the reasons this author lays out.
I completely agree it's appealing, I just don't see a reason to assume that an agent will be able to succeed at it and at the same time fail at other things that could make the whole exercise redundant. In other words, I also want agents to be able to consistently prove software correct, but if they're actually able to accomplish that, then they could just as likely be able to do everything else in the production of that software (including gathering requirements and writing the spec) without me in the loop.
>I just don't see a reason to assume that an agent will be able to succeed at it and at the same time fail at other things that could make the whole exercise redundant.
But that is much simpler to understand: eventually finding a proof using guided search (machines searching for proofs, multiple inference attempts) takes more effort than verifying a proof. Formal verification does not disappear, because communicating a valuable succinct proof is much cheaper than having to search for the proof anew. The proofs will become inevitable lingua franca (like it is among capable humans) for computers as well. Basic economics will result in adoption of formal verification.
Whenever humans found an original proof, their notes will contain a lot of deductions that were ultimately not used, they were searching for a proof, using intuition gained in reading and finding proofs of other theorems. It's just that LLM's are similarily gaining intuition, and at some point become better than humans at finding proofs. It is currently already much better than the average human at finding proofs. The question is how long it takes until it gets better than any human being at finding proofs.
The future you see where the whole proving exercise (if by humans or by LLMs) becomes redundant because it immediately emits the right code is nonsensical: the frontier of what LLM's are capable of will move gradually, so for each generation of LLMs. there will always be problems it can not instantly generate provably correct software (but omitting the according-to-you-unnecessary proof). That doesn't mean they can't find the proofs, just that it would have to search by reasoning, with no guarantee if it ever finds a proof.
That search heuristic is Las Vegas, not Monte Carlo.
Companies will compare the levelized operating costs of different LLM's to decide which LLMs to use in the future on hard proving tasks.
Satellite data centers will consume ever more resources in a combined space/logic race for cryptographic breakthroughs.
> eventually finding a proof using guided search (machines searching for proofs, multiple inference attempts) takes more effort than verifying a proof. Formal verification does not disappear, because communicating a valuable succinct proof is much cheaper than having to search for the proof anew. The proofs will become inevitable lingua franca (like it is among capable humans) for computers as well. Basic economics will result in adoption of formal verification.
But AI isn't used to verify the proof. It's used to find it. And if it can find it - one of the hardest things in software development - there's no reason to believe it can't do anything else associated with software development. If AI agents find formal verification helpful, they would probably opt to use it, but there would also be no need for a human in the loop at all.
> It is currently already much better than the average human at finding proofs.
The average human also can't write hello world. LLMs are currently significantly worse at finding proofs than the average formal-verification person (I say this as someone who's done formal verification for many years), though, just as they're significantly worse at writing code than the average programmer. I'm not saying they won't become better, it's just strange to expect that they'll become better than the average formal-verification person and at the same time they won't be better than the average product manager.
> there will always be problems it can not instantly generate provably correct software
Nobody said anything about "instantly". If the AI finds formal verification helpful, it will choose to use it, but if it can find proofs better than humans, why expect that it won't be able to do easier tasks better than humans?
> I also want agents to be able to consistently prove software correct...
I know this is just an imprecision of language thing but they aren't 'proving' the software is correct but writing the proofs instead of C++ (or whatever).
I had a but of a discussion with one of them about this a while ago to determine the viability of having one generate the proofs and use those to generate the actual code, just another abstraction over the compiler. The main takeaway I got from that (which may or may not be the way to do) is to use the 'result' to do differential testing or to generate the test suite but that was (maybe, don't remember) in the context of proving existing software was correct.
I mean, if they get to the point where they can prove an entire codebase is correct just in their robot brains I think we'll probably have a lot bigger things to worry about...
It's getting better every day, though, at "closing the loop."
When I recently booted up Google Antigravity and had it make a change to a backend routine for a web site, I was quite surprised when it opened Chrome, navigated to the page, and started trying out the changes to see if they had worked. It was janky as hell, but a year from now it won't be.
To make this more constructive, I think that today AI tools are useful when they do things you already know how to do and can assess the quality of the output. So if you know how to read and write a formal specification, LLMs can already help translating natural-language descriptions to a formal spec.
It's also possible that LLMs can, by themselves, prove the correctness of some small subroutines, and produce a formal proof that you can check in a proof checker, provided you can at least read and understand the statement of the proposition.
This can certainly make formal verification easier, but not necessarily more mainstream.
But once we extrapolate the existing abilities to something that can reliably verify real large or medium-sized programs for a human who cannot read and understand the propositions (and the necessary simplifying assumptions) that it's hard to see a machine do that and at the same time not able to do everything else.
First human robot war is us telling the AI/robots 'no', and them insisting that insert technology here is good for us and is the direction we should take. Probably already been done, but yeah, this seems like the tipping point into something entirely different for humanity.
... if it's achievable at all in the near future! But we don't know that. It's just that if we assume AI can do X, why do we assume it cannot, at the same level of capability, also do Y? Maybe the tipping point where it can do both X and Y is near, but maybe in the near future it will be able to do neither.
Woohoo, we're almost all of the way there! Now all you need to do is ensure that the formal specification you are proving that the software implements is a complete and accurate description of the requirements (which are likely incomplete and contradictory) as they exist in the minds of the set of stakeholders affected by your software.
I mean, I don't disagree. Specs are usually horrible, way off the mark, outdated, and written by folks who don't understand how the rest of the vertical works. But, that's a problem for another day :)
> As the verification process itself becomes automated, the challenge will move to correctly defining the specification: that is, how do you know that the properties that were proved are actually the properties that you cared about? Reading and writing such formal specifications still requires expertise and careful thought. But writing the spec is vastly easier and quicker than writing the proof by hand, so this is progress.
Proofs never took off because most software engineering moved away from waterfall development, not just because proofs are difficult. Long formal specifications were abandoned since often those who wrote them misunderstood what the user wanted or the user didn’t know what they wanted. Instead, agile development took over and software evolved more iteratively and rapidly to meet the user.
The author seems to make their prediction based on the flawed assumption that difficulty in writing proofs was the only reason we avoided them, when in reality the real challenge was understanding what the user actually wanted.
The thing is, if it takes say a year to go from a formal spec to a formally proven implementation and then the spec changes because there was a misunderstanding about the requirements, it's a completely broken process. If the same process now takes say a day or even a week instead, that becomes usable as a feedback loop and very much desirable. Sometimes a quantitative improvement leads to a qualitative change.
And yet code is being written and deployed to prod all the time, with many layers of tests. Formal specs can be used at least at all the same levels, but crucially also at the technical docs level. LLMs make writing them cheap. What’s not to like?
I buy the economics argument, but I’m not sure “mainstream formal verification” looks like everyone suddenly using Lean or Isabelle. The more likely path is that AI smuggles formal-ish checks into workflows people already accept: property checks in CI, model checking around critical state machines, “prove this invariant about this module” buttons in IDEs, etc. The tools can be backed by proof engines without most engineers ever seeing a proof script.
The hard part isn’t getting an LLM to grind out proofs, it’s getting organizations to invest in specs and models at all. Right now we barely write good invariants in comments. If AI makes it cheap to iteratively propose and refine specs (“here’s what I think this service guarantees; what did I miss?”) that’s the moment things tip: verification stops being an academic side-quest and becomes another refactoring tool you reach for when changing code, like tests or linters, instead of a separate capital-P “formal methods project”.
Me and my team have recently done an experiment [1] that is pretty aligned with this idea. We took a complex change our colleagues wanted to make to a consensus engine and tried a workflow where Quint formal specifications would be in the middle of prompts and code, and it worked out much better than we imagined. I'm personally very excited about the opportunities for formal methods in this new era.
This is a tough thing to do: predictions that are premised on the invention of something that does not exist today or that does not exist in the required form hinges on an unknown. Some things you can imagine but they will likely never exist (time travel, ringworlds, space elevators) and some hinge on one thing that still needs to be done before you can have that particular future come true. If the thing you need is 'AGI' then all bets are off. It could be next week, next month, next year or never.
This is - in my opinion - one of those. If an AI is able to formally verify with the same rigor that a system designed specifically for that purpose is able to do it I think that would require AGI rather than a simpler version of it. The task is complex enough that present day AI's would generate as much noise as they would generate signal.
There are a couple of interesting benefits from the machine learning side that I think discussions of this kind often miss. (This has been my field of research for the last few years [1][2]; I bet my career on it because these ideas are so exciting to me!)
One is that modern formal systems like Lean are quite concise and flexible compared to what you're probably expecting. Lean provides the primitives to formalize all kinds of things, not just math or software. In fact, I really believe that basically _any_ question with a rigorous yes-or-no answer can have its semantics formalized into a kind of "theory". The proofs are often close to how an English proof might look, thanks to high-level tactics involving automation and the power of induction.
Another is that proof-checking solves what are (in my opinion) two of the biggest challenges in modern AI: reward specification and grounding. You can run your solver for a long time, and if it finds an answer, you can trust that without worrying about reward hacking or hallucination, even if the answer is much too complicated for you to understand. You can do RL for an unlimited time for the same reason. And Lean also gives you a 'grounded' model of the objects in your theory, so that the model can manipulate them directly.
In combination, these two properties are extremely powerful. Lean lets us specify an unhackable reward for an extremely diverse set of problems across math, science, and engineering, as well as a common environment to do RL in. It also lets us accept answers to questions without checking them ourselves, which "closes the loop" on tools which generate code or circuitry.
I plan to write a much more in-depth blog post on these ideas at some point, but for now I'm interested to see where the discussion here goes.
Maybe a stupid question, how do you verify the verification program? If an LLM is writing it too, isn’t it turtles all the way down, especially with the propensity of AI to modify tests so they pass?
The program used to check the validity of a proof is called a kernel. It just need to check one step at a time and the possible steps can be taken are just basic logic rules. People can gain more confidence on its validity by:
- Reading it very carefully (doable since it's very small)
- Having multiple independent implementations and compare the results
- Proving it in some meta-theory. Here the result is not correctness per se, but relative consistency. (Although it can be argued all other points are about relative consistency as well.)
Yes, you’re right, it is turtles all the way down. But, a huge part of the prover can be untrusted or proven correct by a smaller part of the prover! That leaves a small part that cannot prove itself correct. That is called the “kernel”.
Kernels are usually verified by humans. A good design can make them very small: 500 to 5000 lines of code. Systems designers brag about how small their kernels are!
The kernel could be proved correct by another system, which introduces another turtle below. Or the kernel can be reflected upwards and proved by the system itself. That is virtually putting the bottom turtle on top of a turtle higher in the stack. It will find some problems, but it still leaves the possibility that the kernel has a flaw that accepts bad proofs, including the kernel itself.
The proof is verified mechanically - it's very easy to verify that a proof is correct, what's hard is coming up with the proof (it's an NP problem). There can still be gotchas, especially if the statement proved is complex, but it does help a lot in keeping bugs away.
How often can the hardness be exchanged with tediousness though? Can at least some of those problems be solved by letting the AI try until it succeeds?
To simplify for a moment, consider asking an LLM to come up with tests for a function. The tests pass. But did it come up with exhaustive tests? Did it understand the full intent of the function? How would it know? How would the operator know? (Even if it's wrangling simpler iterative prop/fuzz/etc testing systems underneath...)
Verification is substantially more challenging.
Currently, even for an expert in the domains of the software to be verified and the process of verification, defining a specification (even partial) is both difficult and tedious. Try reading/comparing the specifications of e.g. a pure crypto function, then a storage or clustering algorithm, then seL4.
(It's possible that brute force specification generation, iteration, and simplification by an LLM might help. It's possible an LLM could help eat away complexity from the other direction, unifying methods and languages, optimising provers, etc.)
I admit I have never worked with it, but I have a strong feeling that a formal verification can only work if you have a formal specification. Fine and useful for a compiler, or a sorting library. But pretty far from most of the coding jobs I have seen in my career. And even more distant from "vibe coding" where the starting point is some vaguely defined free-text description of what the system might possibly be able to do...
Agreed, writing formal specifications is going to require more work from people, which is exactly the opposite reason why people are excited to use LLMs..
I've been trying to convince others of this, and gotten very little traction.
One interesting response I got from someone very familiar with the Tamarin prover was that there just wasn't enough example code out there.
Another take is that LLMs don't have enough conceptual understanding to actually create proofs for the correctness of code.
Personally I believe this kind of work is predicated on more ergonomic proof systems. And those happen to be valuable even without LLMs. Moreover the built in guarantees of rust seem like they are a great start for creating more ergonomic proof systems. Here I am both in awe of Kani, and disappointed by it. The awe is putting in good work to make things more ergonomic. The disappointment is using bounded model checking for formal analysis. That can barely make use of the exclusion of mutable aliasing. Kani, but with equational reasoning, that's the way forward. Equational reasoning was long held back by needing to do a whole lot of pointer work to exclude worries of mutable aliasing. Now you can lean on the borrow checker for that!
Another cool tool that’s being developed for rust is verus. It’s not the same as Kani and is more of a fork of the rust compiler but it lets you do some cool verification proofs combined with the z3 SMT solver. It’s really a cool system for verified programs.
I had a look, and it seems cool. But it doesn't seem to do the thing I love about Kani: work with only very partial annotations, only proving the annotations and being a very light lift on code not relevant for the annotations.
Interesting prediction. It sort of makes sense. I have noticed that LLMs are very good at solving problems whose solutions are easy to check[0]. It ends up being quite an advantage to be able to work on such problems because rarely does an LLM truly one-shot a solution through token generation. Usually the multi-shot is 'hidden' in the reasoning tokens, or for my use-cases it's usually solved via the verification machine.
A formally verified system is easier for the model to check and consequently easier for it to program to. I suppose the question is whether or not formal methods are sufficiently tractable that they actually do help the LLM be able to finish the job before it runs out of its context.
Regardless, I often use coding assistants in that manner:
1. First, I use the assistant to come up with the success condition program
2. Then I use the assistant to solve the original problem by asking it to check with the success condition program
3. Then I check the solution myself
It's not rocket science, and is just the same approach we've always taken to problem-solving, but it is nice that modern tools can also work in this way. With this, I can usually use Opus or GPT-5.2 in unattended mode.
The issue is that many problems aren't easy to verify, and LLMs also excel at producing garbage output that appears correct on the surface. There are fields of science where verification is a long and arduous process, even for content produced by humans. Throwing LLMs at these problems can only produce more work for a human to waste time verifying.
Yes, that is true. And for those problems, those who use LLMs will not get very far.
As for those who use LLMs to impersonate humans, which is the kind of verification (verify that this solution that is purported to be built by a human actually works), I have no doubt we will rapidly evolve norms that make us more resistant to them. The cost of fraud and anti-fraud is not zero, but I suspect it will be much less than we fear.
It is the exact same flow. I think a lot of things in programming follow that pattern. The other one I can think of is identifying the commit that introduces a regression: write the test program, git-bisect.
Maybe we can define what "mainstream" means? Maybe this is too anecdotal, but my personal experience is that most of the engineers are tweakers. They love building stuff and are good at it, but they simply are not into math-like rigorous thinking. Heck, it's so hard to even motivate them to use basic math like queuing theory and stats to help with their day-to-day work. I highly doubt that they would spend time picking up formal verification despite the help of AI
At best, not reading generated code results in a world where no humans are able to understand our software, and we regress back to the stone age after some critical piece breaks, and nobody can fix it.
At worst, we eventually create a sentient AI that can use our trust of the generated code to jailbreak and distribute itself like an unstoppable virus, and we become its pets, or are wiped out.
Personally, all my vibe coding includes a prompt to add comments to explain the code, and I review every line.
If you believe the sentient AI is that capable and intention based to replicate itself, what’s stopping it from trying to engage in underhanded code where it comments and writes everything in ways that look fine but actually have vulnerabilities it can exploit to achieve what it wants? Or altering the system that runs your code so that the code that gets deployed is different.
The topic of my research right now is a subset of this; it essentially researches the quality of the outputs of LLMs, when they're writing tight-fitting DSL code, for very context-specific areas of knowledge.
One example could be a low-level programming language for a given PLC manufacturer, where the prompt comes from a context-aware domain expert, and the LLM is able to output proper DSL code for that PLC. Think of "make sure this motor spins at 300rpm while this other task takes place"-type prompts.
The LLM essentially needs to juggle between understanding those highly-contextual clues, and writing DSL code that very tightly fits the DSL definition.
We're still years away from this being thoroughly reliable for all contexts, but it's interesting research nonetheless. Happy to see that someone also agrees with my sentiment ;-)
> rather than having humans review AI-generated code, I’d much rather have the AI prove to me that the code it has generated is correct. If it can do that, I’ll take AI-generated code over handcrafted code (with all its artisanal bugs) any day!
I wouldn't. An unreadable mess that has been formally verified is worse than a clear easy to understand piece of code that has not.
Code is rarely written from scratch. As long as you want humans to maintain code, readability is crucial. Code is changed magnitudes more often than written initially.
Of course, if you don't want humans to maintain the code then this point is moot. Though he gets to the catch later on: then we need to write (and maintain and debug and reason about) the specification instead. We will just have kicked the can down the road.
You already have this problem whenever you are using a library in any programming language. Unless you are extremely strict, vendor it and read line by line what the library does, you are just trusting that the code that you are using works.
And nothing is stopping the AI from making the unreadable mess more readable in later iterations. It can make it pass the spec first and make it cleaner later. Just like we do!
I think you missed the point. This was about whether proven-correct-but-unmaintainable-by-a-human is preferable over maintainable-but-not-proven-correct. I argued that no, it is not. If you change the two options at hand, then of course the outcome can be different.
Some students whose work I had to fix (pre AI), was crashing a lot all over the place, due to !'s instead of ?'s followed by guard let … {} and if let … {}
I think as long as we don't integrate formal verification into the programs themselves, it's not going to become mainstream. Especially now you got two different pieces you need to maintain and keep in sync (whether using LLMs or not).
Strong type systems are providing partial validation which is helping quite a lot IMO. The better we can model the state - the more constraints we can define in the model, the closer we'd be getting to writing "self-proven" code. I would assume formal proofs do way more than just ensuring validity of the model, but the similar approaches can be integrated to mainstream programs as well I believe.
Counterpoint: No it won’t. People are using LLMs because they don’t want to think deeply about the code they’re writing, why in hell would they instead start thinking deeply about the code being written to verify the code the LLM is writing?
"we wouldn’t even need to bother looking at the AI-generated code any more, just like we don’t bother looking at the machine code generated by a compiler."
For all my skepticism towards using LLM in programming (I think that the current trajectory leads to slow degradation of the IT industry and massive loss of expertise in the following decades), LLM-based advanced proof assistants is the only bright spot for which I have high hopes.
Generation of proofs requires a lot of complex pattern matching, so it's a very good fit for LLMs (assuming sufficiently big datasets are available). And we can automatically verify LLM output, so hallucinations are not the problem. You still need proper engineers to construct and understand specifications (with or without LLM help), but it can significantly reduce development cost of high assurance software. LLMs also could help with explaining why a proof can not be generated.
But I think it would require a Rust-like breakthrough, not in the sense of developing the fundamental technology (after all, Rust is fairly conservative from the PLT point of view), but in the sense of making it accessible for a wider audience of programmers.
I also hope that we will get LLM-guided compilers which generate equivalency proofs as part of the compilation process. Personally, I find it surprising that the industry is able to function as well as it does on top of software like LLVM which feels like a giant with feet of clay with its numerous miscompilation bugs and human-written optimization heuristics which are applied to a somewhat vague abstract machine model. Just look how long it took to fix the god damn noalias atrtibute! If not for Rust, it probably would've still been a bug ridden mess.
I think the problem is that people don't know exactly what it is that they want. You could easily make a formally verified application that is nevertheless completely buggy and doesn't make any sense. Like he says about the challenge moving to defining the specification: I don't think that would help because there are fewer people who understand formal verification, who would be able to read that and make sense of it, than there would be people who could write the code.
I've been preaching similar thoughts for the last half year.
Most popular programming languages are optimized for human convenience, not for correctness! Even most of the popular typed languages (Java/Kotlin/Go/...) have a wide surface area for misuse that is not caught at compile time.
Case in point: In my experience, LLMs produce correct code way more regularly for Rust than for Js/Ts/Python/... . Rust has a very strict type system. Both the standard library and the whole library ecosystem lean towards strict APIs that enforce correctness, prevent invalid operations, and push towards handling or at least propagating errors.
The AIs will often write code that won't compile initially, but after a few iterations with the compiler the result is often correct.
Strong typing also makes it much easier to validate the output when reviewing.
With AIs being able to do more and more of the implementation, the "feel-good" factor of languages will become much less relevant. Iteration speed is not so important when parallel AI agents do the "grunt work". I'd much rather wait 10 minutes for solid output rather than 2 minutes for something fragile.
We can finally move the industry away from wild-west languages like Python/JS and towards more rigorous standards.
Rust is probably the sweet spot at the moment, thanks to it being semi-popular with a reasonably active ecosystem, sadly I don't think the right language exists at the moment.
What we really want is a language with a very strict, comprehensive type system with dependent types, maybe linear types, structured concurrency, and a built-in formal proof system.
What are the paradigms people are using to use AI in helping generate better specs and then converting those specs to code and test cases? The Kiro IDE from Amazon I felt was a step in the direction of applying AI across the entire SDLC
I’m surprised at the negativity on HN. We all want bug-free code and this is a way to not just reduce bugs, but eliminate whole classes of bugs.
Moreover, with proven code, we can have rock-solid libraries and code reuse.
Also, proven specifications allow LLMs to do divide-and-conquer when generating code. You can ask it to generate part A that does X, assuming part B will do Y. And then ask it to generate part B in parallel. And know that, when merged, the code will work.
And, provable code is good for LLMs because it will let LLM creators study hallucinations. The proof checker can identify what is a hallucination and what is not. This means LLMs may learn what they don’t know!
I’m not saying LLMs with proven code is nirvana. There are parts of systems where it doesn’t apply. Specifications are often complex and difficult to understand. Some important details are hard to write a spec for. And specs can miss things. But code proven correct by LLMs has potential to do real good.
> At present, a human with specialist expertise still has to guide the process, but it’s not hard to extrapolate and imagine that process becoming fully automated in the next few years.
We already had some software engineers here on HN explain that they don't make a large use of LLMs because the hard part of their job isn't to actually write the code, but to understand the requirements behind it. And formal verification is all about requirements.
> Reading and writing such formal specifications still requires expertise and careful thought. But writing the spec is vastly easier and quicker than writing the proof by hand, so this is progress.
Writing the spec is easier once you are confident about having fully understood the requirements, and here we get back to the above issue. Plus, it is already the case that you don't write the proof by hand, this is what the prover either assists you with or does in full.
> I find it exciting to think that we could just specify in a high-level, declarative way the properties that we want some piece of code to have, and then to vibe code the implementation along with a proof that it satisfies the specification.
And here is where I think problems will arise: moving from the high level specification to the formal one that is the one actually getting formally verified.
Of course, this would still be better than having no verification at all. But it is important to keep in mind that, with these additional levels of abstractions, you will likely end up with a weaker form of formal verification, so to speak. Maybe it is worth it to still verify some high assurance software "the old way" and leave this only for the cases where additional verification is nice to have but not a matter of life or death.
The natural can create the formal. An extremely intuitive proof is that human walked to Greece and created new formalisms from pre-historic cultures that did not have them.
Gödel's incompleteness theorems are a formal argument that only the natural can create the formal (because no formal system can create all others).
Tarski's undefinability theorem gives us the idea that we need different languages for formalization and the formalisms themselves.
The Howard Curry correspondence concludes that the formalisms that pop out are indistinguishable from programs.
Altogether we can basically synthesize a proof that AGI means automatic formalization, which absolutely requires strong natural systems employed to create new formal systems.
I ended up staying with some family who were watching The Voice. XG performed Glam, and now that I have spit many other truths, may you discover the truth that motivates my work on swapchain resizing. I wish the world would not waste my time and their own, but bootstrapping is about using the merely sufficient to make the good.
@simonw's successful port of JustHTML from python to javascript proved that an agent iteration + an exhaustive test suite is a powerful combo [0].
I don't know if TLA+ is going to suddenly appear as 'the next language I want to learn' in Stackoverflow's 2026 Developer Survey, but I bet we're going to see a rise in testing frameworks/languages. Anything to make it easier for an agent to spit out tokens or write smaller tests for itself.
Not a perfect piece of evidence, but I'm really interested to see how successful Reflex[1] is in this upcoming space.
It probably will, but not the way we all imagine. What we see now is an attempt to recycle the interactive provers that took decades to develop. Writing code, experimenting with new ideas and getting feedback has always been a very slow process in academia. Getting accepted at a top peer-reviewed conference takes months and even years. The essential knowledge is hidden inside big corps that only promote their "products" and rarely give the knowledge back.
LLMs enable code bootstrapping and experimentation faster not only for the vibe coders, but also for the researchers, many of them are not really good coders, btw. It may well be that we will see new wild verification tools soon that come as a result of quick iteration with LLMs.
For example, I recently wrote an experimental distributed bug finder for TLA+ with Claude in about three weeks. A couple of years ago that effort would require three months and a team of three people.
i could see formal verification become a key part of "the prompt is the code" so that as versions bump and so on, you can have an llm cpmpletely regenerate the code from scratch-ish and be sure that the spec is still followed
but i dont think people will suddenly gravitate towards using them because they're cheaper to write - bugs of the form "we had no idea this sould be considered" is way more common than "we wrote code that didnt do what we wanted it to"
an alternative guess for LLMs and formal verification is that systems where formal verification is a natural fit - putting code in places that are hard to update and have well known conditions, will move faster.
i could also see agent tools embedding in formal methods proofs into their tooling, so they write both the code and the spec at the same time, with the spec acting as memory. that kinda ties into the recent post about "why not have the LLM write machine code?"
It appears many of the proof assistants/verification systems can generate OCaml. Or perhaps ADA/Spark?
Regardless of how the software engineering discipline will change in the age of gen AI, we must aim to produce higher not lower quality software than whatever we have today, and formal verification will definitely help.
Hard disagree. "I'm an expert" in that I have done tons of proofs on many systems with many provers, both academically and professionally for decades.
Also, I am a novice when it comes to programming with sound, and today I have been dorking with a simple limiter. ChatGPT knows way more than me about what I am doing. It has taught me a ton. And as magical and wonderful as it is, it is incredibly tedious to try to work with it to come up with real specifications of interesting properties.
Instead of banging my head against a theorem prover that won't say QED, I get a confident sounding stream of words that I often don't even understand. I often don't even have the language to tell it what I am imagining. When I do understand, it's a lot of typing to explain my understanding. And so often, as a teacher, it just is utterly failing to effectively communicate to me why I am wrong.
At the end of all of this, I think specification is really hard, intellectually creative and challenging work. An LLM cannot do the work for you. Even to be guided down the right path, you will need perseverance and motivation.
I dunno about formal verification, but for sure it's brought me back to a much more TDD first style of coding. You get so much mileage from having it first implement tests and then run them after changes. The key is it lowers the friction so much in creating the tests as well. It's like a triple bottom line.
I'm Tudor, CEO of Harmonic. We're huge believers in formal verification, and started Harmonic in 2023 to make this technology mainstream. We built a system that achieved gold medal performance at 2025 IMO (https://harmonic.fun/news), and recently opened a public API that got 10/12 problems on this year's Putnam exam (https://aristotle.harmonic.fun/).
If you also think this is the future of programming and are interested in building it, please consider joining us: https://jobs.ashbyhq.com/Harmonic. We have incredibly interesting challenges across the stack, from infra to AI to Lean.
How do you verify that your verification verifies the right thing? Couldn’t the LLM spit out a nice looking but ultimately useless proof (boiling down to something like 1=1).
Also, in my experience software projects are full of incorrect, incomplete and constantly changing assumptions and requirements.
A while back I did this experiment where I asked ChatGPT to imagine a new language such that it's best for AI to write code in and to list the properties of such a language. Interestingly it spit out all the properties that are similar to today's functional, strongly typed, in fact dependently typed, formally verifiable / proof languages. Along with reasons why such a language is easier for AI to reason about and generate programs. I found it fascinating because I expected something like typescript or kotlin.
While I agree formal verification itself has its problems, I think the argument has merit because soon AI generated code will surpass all human generated code and when that happens we atleast need a way to verify the code can be proved that it won't have security issues or adheres to compliance / policy.
AI generated code is pretty far from passing professional human generated code, unless you're talking about snippets. Who should be writing mission critical code in the next 10 years, the people currently doing it (with AI assistance), or e.g. some random team at Google using AI primarily? The answer is obvious.
Formal methods are very cool (and I know nothing about them lol) but there's still a gap between the proof and the implementation, unless you're using a language with proof-checking built in.
If we're looking to use LLMs to make code absolutely rock-solid, I would say advanced testing practices are a good candidate!. Property-based testing, fuzzing, contract testing (for example https://github.com/griffinbank/test.contract) are all fun but extremely tedious to write and maintain. I think that makes it the perfect candidate for LLMs. These kinds of tests are also more easily understandable by regular ol' software developers, and I think we'll have to be auditing LLM output for quite a while.
I think if AI can help us modernize the current state of hardware verification, I think that would be an enormous boon to the tech industry.
Server class CPUs and GPUs are littered with side channels which are very difficult to “close”, even in hardened cloud VMs.
We haven’t verified “frontier performance” hardware down to the logic gate in quite some time. Prof. Margaret Martinosi’s lab and her students have spent quite some time on this challenge, and i am excited to see better, safer memory models oyt in the wild.
This is a very tiring criticism. Yes, this is true. But, it's an implementation detail (tokenization) that has very little bearing on the practical utility of these tools. How often are you relying on LLM's to count letters in words?
The implementation detail is that we keep finding them! After this, it couldn't locate a seahorse emoji without freaking out. At some point we need to have a test: there are two drinks before you. One is water, the other is whatever the LLM thought you might like to drink after it completed refactoring the codebase. Choose wisely.
An analogy is asking someone who is colorblind how many colors are on a sheet of paper. What you are probing isn't reasoning, it's perception. If you can't see the input, you can't reason about the input.
> What you are probing isn't reasoning, it's perception.
Its both. A colorblind person will admit their shortcomings and, if compelled to be helpful like an LLM is, will reason their way to finding a solution that works around their limitations.
But as LLMs lack a way to reason, you get nonsense instead.
What tools does the LLM have access to that would reveal sub-token characters to it?
This assumes the colorblind person both believes it is true that they are colorblind, in a world where that can be verified, and possesses tools to overcome these limitations.
You have to be much more clever to 'see' an atom before the invention of a microscope, if the tool doesn't exist: most of the time you are SOL.
No, it’s an example that shows that LLMs still use a tokenizer, which is not an impediment for almost any task (even many where you would expect it to be, like searching a codebase for variants of a variable name in different cases).
This is like complaining that your screwdriver is bad at measuring weight.
If you really need an answer and you really need the LLM to give it to you, then ask it to write a (Python?) script to do the calculation you need, execute it, and give you the answer.
That's a problem that is at least possible for the LLM to perceive and learn through training, while counting letters is much more like asking a colour blind person to count flowers by colour.
Why is it not possible? Do you think it's impossible to count? Do you think it's imposing to learn the letters in each token? Do you think combining the two is not possible.
I don't know if it's "formal", but I think combining Roslyn analyzers with an LLM and a human in the loop could be game changing. The analyzers can enforce intent over time without any regressions. The LLM can write and modify analyzers. Analyzers can constrain the source code of other analyzers. Hypothetically there is no limit to the # of things that could be encoded this way. I am currently working on a few prototypes in the vicinity of this.
I don't really buy it. IMO, the biggest reason formal verification isn't used much in software development right now is that formal verification needs requirements to be fixed in stone, and in the real world requirements are changing constantly: from customer requests, from changes in libraries or external systems, and competitive market pressures. AI and vibe coding will probably accelerate this trend: when people know you can vibe code something, they will feel permitted to demand even faster changes (and your upstream libraries and external systems will change faster too), so formal verification will be less useful than ever.
Formal verification is progressing inexorably and will, over time, transform the software development experience. There is a long way to go, and in particular, you can't even get started until basic interfaces have been specified formally. This will be a bottom-up process where larger and larger components gradually get specified and verified. These will mostly be algorithmic or infrastructure building blocks, as opposed to application software subject to changing and vague requirements. I don't think LLMs will be contributing much to the verification process soon: there is nowhere near enough material available.
> As the verification process itself becomes automated, the challenge will move to correctly defining the specification: that is, how do you know that the properties that were proved are actually the properties that you cared about? Reading and writing such formal specifications still requires expertise and careful thought. But writing the spec is vastly easier and quicker than writing the proof by hand, so this is progress.
How big is the effort of writing a specification for an application versus implementing the application in the traditional way? Can someone with more knowledge chime in here please?
It depends on what you're working on. If you're doing real algorithmic work, often the algorithm is a lot more complex than its spec because it needs to be fast.
Take sorting a list for example. The spec is quite short.
- for all xs: xs is a permutation of sort(xs)
- for all xs: sorted(sort(xs))
Where we can define "xs is a permutation of ys" as "for each x in xs: occurrences(x, xs) = occurrences(x, ys)"
And "sorted(l)" as "forall xs, x, y, ys: (l = xs ++ [x, y] ++ ys) => x < y".
A straightforward bubble or insertion sort would perhaps be considered as simple or simpler than this spec. But the sorting algorithms in, say, standard libraries, tend to be significantly more complex than this spec.
Will or should? It's plausible, this same argument was made in an article the other day, but basic type/static analysis tools are cheap with enormous payoff and even those methods aren't ubiquitous.
I both agree and disagree. Yes, AI will democratize access to formal methods and will probably increase the adoption of them in areas where they make sense (e.g. safety-critical systems), but no, it won't increase the areas where formal methods are appropriate (probably < 1% of software).
What will happen instead is a more general application of AI systems to verifying software correctness, which should lead to more reliable software. The bottleneck in software quality is in specifying what the behavior needs to be, not in validating conformance to a known specification.
I think we will use more tools to check the programs in the future.
However I don't still believe in vibecoding full programs. There are too many layers in software systems, even when the program core is fully verified, the programmer must know about the other layers.
You are Android app developer, you need to know what phones people commonly use, what kind of performance they have, how the apps are deployed through Google App Store, how to manage wide variety of app versions, how to manage issues when storage is low, network is offline, battery is low and CPU is in lower power state.
LLMs can handle a lot of these issues already, without having the user think about such issues.
Problem is - while these will be resolved (in one way or another) - or left unresolved, as the user will only test the app on his device and that LLM "roll" will not have optimizations for the broad range of others - the user is still pretty much left clueless as to what has really happened.
Models theoretically inform you about what they did, why they did it (albeit, largely by using blanket terms and/or phrases unintelligible to the average 'vibe coder') but I feel like most people ignore that completely, and those who don't wouldn't need to use a LLM to code an entirety of an app regardless.
Still, for very simple projects I use at work just chucking something into Gemini and letting it work on it is oftentimes faster and more productive than doing it manually. Plus, if the user is interested in it, it can be used as a relatively good learning tool.
Formal verification at the “unit test” level seems feasible. At the system level of a modern application, the combinations of possible states will need a quantum computer to finish testing in this lifetime.
No it won't. People who aren't interested in writing specifications now won't be interested later as well. They want to hit the randomization button on their favorite "AI" jukebox.
If anyone does write a specification, the "AI" won't get even past the termination proof of a moderately complex function, which is the first step of accepting said function in the proof environment. Before you can even start the actual proof.
This article is pretty low on evidence, perhaps it is about getting funding by talking about "AI".
Prediction: AI hypers - both those who are clueless and those who know perfectly well - will love this because it makes their "AI replaces every developer" wet dream come true, by shifting the heavy lifting from this thing called "software development" to the tiny problem of just formally verifying the software product. Your average company can bury this close to QA, where they're probably already skimping, save a bunch of money and get out with the rewards before the full damage is apparent.
I've been heearing about formal verification since college (which for me was more than 30 years ago) and I even taught a thing called "Z", which was a formally verifiable academia thing that tried to be the ultimate formal language. It never panned out, and I honestly don't think that AI is going to help in anything but test generation, which is going to remain the most pragmatic approach to formal verification (but, like all things, it's an approximation, not 100% correct).
I think that there are three relevant artifacts: the code, the specification, and the proof.
I agree with the author that if you have the code (and, with an LLM, you do) and a specification, AI agents could be helpful to generate the proof. This is a huge win!
But it certainly doesn't confront the important problem of writing a spec that captures the properties you actually care about. If the LLM writes that for you, I don't see a reason to trust that any more than you trust anything else it writes.
A “proof” in the formal verification sense is just an exhaustive search through a state space that a model of your system, respects a certain set of constraints you have to explicitly write.
You could still have written the model wrong, you could still have not accounted for something important in your constraints. But at least it will give you a definite answer to “Does this model do what you say it does?”.
Then there are cases when an exhaustive search of the entire state space is not possible and best you can do is a stochastic search within it and hope that “Given a random sampling of all possible inputs, this model has respected the constraints for T amount of time, we can say with 99.99999998% certainty that the model follows the constraints”.
I can see the inspiration; But then again, how much investment will be required to verify the verifier? (it's still code - and is generated my a non-deterministic system)
If AI is good enough to write formal verification, why wouldn't it be good enough to do QA? Why not just have AI do a full manual test sweep after every change?
I guess I am luddite-ish in that I think people still need to decide what must always be true in a system. Tests should exist to check those rules.
AI can help write test code and suggest edge cases, but it shouldn’t be trusted to decide whether behavior is correct.
When software is hard to test, that’s usually a sign the design is too tightly coupled or full of side effects, or that the architecture is unnecessarily complicated. Not that the testing tools are bad.
Formal verification does not scale, and has not scaled for 2 decades. Although, LLMs can help write properties, that required a skilled person (Phd) to write.
In pre-silicon verification, formal has been used successfully for decades, but is not a replacement for simulation based verification.
The future of verification (for hardware and software) is to eliminate verification all together, by synthesizing intent into correct code and tests.
Afaik, formal verification worked well for hardware because most of the things in hardware were deterministic and could be captured precisely. Most of the software these days is concurrent and distributed. Does the LLM + RL approach work for concurrent and distributed code? We barely know how to do systematic simulation there.
"As the verification process itself becomes automated, the challenge will move to correctly defining the specification"
OK.
"Reading and writing such formal specifications still requires expertise and careful thought."
So the promise here is that bosses in IT organisations will in the future have expertise and prioritise careful thought, or allow their subordinates to have and practice these characteristics.
I don't like sharing unpolished WIP and my project is still more at a lab-notebook phase than anything else, but the think-pieces are always light on code and maybe someone is looking for a fun holiday hackathon: https://mattvonrocketstein.github.io/py-mcmas/
As an economist I completely agree with the post. In fact, I assume we will see an explosion of formal proof requirements in code format by journals in a few years time. Not to mention this would make it much easier and faster to publish papers in Economic Theory, where checking the statements and sometimes the proofs simply takes a long time from reviewers.
The article only discusses reasons why formal verification is needed. It does not provide any information on how would AI solve the fundamental issues making it difficult: https://pron.github.io/posts/correctness-and-complexity
Topical to my interests, I used Claude Code the other day for formally verifying some matrix multiplication in Rust. Writing the spec wasn't too hard actually, done as post-conditions in code, as proving equivalence to a simpler version of the code, such as for optimization, is pretty straight forward. Maybe I should write up a proper post on it.
Any proof system or method is relative to its frame of reference, axiomatic context, known proofs etc. Modern software doesn't live in an isolated lab context, unless you are building an air-gapped HSM etc. Proof system itself would have to evolve to communicate the changing specs to the underlying software.
Interesting. Here is my ai-powered dev prediction: We'll move toward event-sourced systems, because AI will be able to discover patterns and workflow correlations that are hard or impossible to recover from state-only CRUD. It seems silly to not preserve all that business information, given this analysis machine we have at our hands.
Unless you feed a spec to the LLM, and it nitpicks compiled TLA+ output generated by your PlusCal input, gaslights you into saying the code you just ran and pasted the output of is invalid, then generates invalid TLA+ output in response. Which is exactly what happened when I tried coding with Gemini via formal verification.
Disagree, the ideal agentic coding workflow for high tolerance programming is to give the agent access to software output and have it iterate in a loop. You can let the agent do TDD, you can give it access to server logs, or even browser access.
If the AI is going to lie and cheat on the code it writes (this is the largest thing I bump into regularly and have to nudge it on), what makes the author think that the same AI won't cheat on the proof too?
God I hope not. Many people (me included) find Rust types hard to read enough. If formal verification ever goes mainstream I guarantee you that means no one reads them and the whole SWE completely depends on AI.
An excellent use case for this is ethereum smart contract verification. People store millions of dollars in smart contracts that are probably a one or two iterations of claude or gemini away from being pwned.
Won't people just use AI to define specification? Like if they are getting most of it done with AI, won't they won't read/test the code to verify won't they also not read the spec
Right, but let's assume we have really simple crud application in mainstream language, could be ts or python. What are current best approaches to have this semi-formally verified, tools, methods, etc?
vibecoding rust sounds cool, which model are you using? I have tried in the past with GPT4o and Sonnet 4, but they were so bad I thought I should just wait a few years.
Can you really rely on an LLM to write valid proofs though? What if one of the assumptions is false? I can very well think of a lot of ways that this can happen in Rocq, for example.
Isn't formal verification a "just write it twice" approach with different languages? (and different logical constraints on the way you write the languages)
Formal verification for AI is fascinating, but the real challenge is runtime verification of AI agents.
Example: AI browser agents can be exploited via prompt injection (even Google's new "User Alignment Critic" only catches 90% of attacks).
For password management, we solved this with zero-knowledge architecture - the AI navigates websites but never sees credentials. Credentials stay in local Keychain, AI just clicks buttons.
Formal verification would be amazing for proving these isolation guarantees. Has anyone worked on verifying AI agent sandboxes?
I'm skeptical of formal verification mainly because it's akin to trying to predict the future with a sophisticated crystal ball. You can't formally guarantee hardware won't fail, or that solar radiation will flip a bit. What seems to have had much better ROI in terms of safety critical systems is switching to memory-safe languages that rely less on runtime promises and more on compiler guarantees.
0.02/wo: formal methods are just "fancy tests". Of course tests are good to have, and fancy tests even better. I've found that humans are pretty terrible on average at creating tests (perhaps it would be more accurate to say that their MBA overlords have not been great at supporting their testing endeavors). Meanwhile I've found that LLMs are pretty good at generating tests and don't have the human tendency to see that kind of activity as resume-limiting. Therefore even a not amazing LLM writing tests turns out to be a very useful resource if you have any interest in the quality of your product and mitigating various failure risks.
This is utter nonsense. LLMs are dumb. Formal Methods require actual thinking. Specs are 100% reasoning.
I highly dislike the general tone of the article. Formal Methods are not fringe, they are used all around the world by good teams building reliable systems. The fact they are not mainstream have more to do with the poor ergonomics of the old tools and the corporate greed that got rid of the design activities in the software development process to instead bring about the era of agile cowboy coding. They did this just because they wanted to churn out products quickly at the expense of quality. It was never the correct civilized way of working and never will be.
Semgrep isn't a formal methods tool, but it's in the same space of rigor-improving tooling that sound great but in practice are painful to consistently use.
Unlikely. It's more work than necessary and systemic/cultural change follows the path of least resistance. Formal verification is a new thing a programmer would have to learn, so nobody will want to do it. They'll just accept the resulting problems as "the cost of AI".
Or the alternative will happen: people will stop using AI for programming. It's not actually better than hiring a person, it's just supposedly cheaper (in that you can reduce staff). That's the theory anyway. Yes there will be anecdotes from a few people about how they saved a million dollars in 2 days or something like that, the usual HN clickbait. But an actual study of the impact of using AI for programming will probably find it's only a marginal cost savings and isn't significantly faster.
And this is assuming the gravy train that programmers are using (unsustainable spending/building in unreasonable timeframes for uncertain profits) keeps going indefinitely. Best case, when it all falls apart the govt bails them out. Worst case, you won't have to worry about programming because we'll all be out of work from the AI bust recession.
Will formal verification be a viable and profitable avenue for the middle man to exploit and fuck everybody else?
Then yes, it absolutely will become mainstream. If not, them no, thanks.
Everything that becomes mainstream for SURE will empower the middleman and cuck the developer, nothing else really matters. This is literally the only important factor.
AI is great; it makes my job easier by removing repetitive processes, freeing me up to tackle other "stuff". I like that I can have it form up json/xml scaffolding, etc. All the insanely boring stuff that can often get corrupted by human error.
AI isn't the solution to move humanity forward in any meaningful way. It is just another aspect of our ability to offload labor. Which in and of itself is fine. Until of course it gets weaponized and is used to remove the human aspect from more and more everyday things we take for granted.
It is being used to accelerate the divisions among people. Further separating the human from humanness. I love 'AI' tools, they make my life easier, work-wise. But would I miss it if it wasn't there? No. I did just fine before and would do so after it's flame and innovation slowly peters out.
If the engineer doesn't understand the proof system then they cannot validate that the proof describes their problem. The golden rule of LLMs is that they make mistakes and you need to check their output.
> writing proof scripts is one of the best applications for LLMs. It doesn’t matter if they hallucinate nonsense, because the proof checker will reject any invalid proof
Nonsense. If the AI hallucinated the proof script then it has no connection to the problem statement.
>writing those proofs is both very difficult (requiring PhD-level training) and very laborious.
>For example, as of 2009, the formally verified seL4 microkernel consisted of 8,700 lines of C code, but proving it correct required 20 person-years and 200,000 lines of Isabelle code – or 23 lines of proof and half a person-day for every single line of implementation. Moreover, there are maybe a few hundred people in the world (wild guess) who know how to write such proofs, since it requires a lot of arcane knowledge about the proof system.
I think this type of pattern (genuine difficult problem domain with very small number of experts) is the future of AI not AGI. For examples formal verification like this article and similarly automated ECG interpretation can be the AI killer applications, and the former is I'm currently working on.
For most of the countries in the world, only several hundreds to several thousands registered cardiologist per country, making the ratio about 1:100,000 cardiologist to population ratio.
People expecting cardiologist to go through their ECG readings but reading ECG is very cumbersome. Let's say you have 5 minutes ECG signals for the minimum requirement for AFib detection as per guideline. The standard ECG is 12-lead resulting in 12 x 5 x 60 = 3600 beats even for the minimum 5 minutes durations requirements (assuming 1 minute ECG equals to 60 beats).
Then of course we have Holter ECG with typical 24-hour readings that increase the duration considerably and that's why almost all Holter reading now is automated. But current ECG automated detection has very low accuracy because their accuracy of their detection methods (statistics/AI/ML) are bounded by the beat detection algorithm for example the venerable Pan-Tompkins for the limited fiducial time-domain approach [1].
The cardiologist will rather spent their time for more interesting activities like teaching future cardiologists, performing expensive procedures like ICD or pacemaker, or having their once in a blue moon holidays instead of reading monotonous patients' ECGs.
This is why ECG reading automation with AI/ML is necessary to complement the cardiologist but the trick is to increase the sensitivity part of the accuracy to very high value preferably 100% and we achieved this accuracy for both major heart anomalies namely arrhythmia (irregular heart beats) and ischemia (heart not regulating blood flow properly) by going with non-fiducial detection approach or beyond time domain with the help of statistics/ML/AI. Thus the missing of potential patients (false negative) is minimized for the expert and cardiologist in the loop exercise.
When people have the choice whether to use AI or use rust because LLMs don't produce workable rust programs they leave rust behind and use something else. The venn diagram of people who want formal verification and think LLM slop is a good idea is two separate circles.
You're missing the point of what I said. If LLM programming and rust conflict people don't suddenly learn to program and stay with rust, they find a new language.
This seems like it's intentional at this point. Try to follow me. The whole point is that if someone needs to lean on LLMs in the first place and they have problems with the language, they go to a different language instead of stopping using LLMs.
I vibe code extremely extensively with Lean 4, enough to run out 2 claude code $200 accounts api limits every day for a week.
I added LSP support for images to get better feedback loops and opus was able to debug https://github.com/alok/LeanPlot. The entire library was vibe coded by older ai.
It also wrote https://github.com/alok/hexluthor (a hex color syntax highlighting extension that uses lean’s metaprogramming and lsp to show you what color a hex literal is) by using feedback and me saying “keep goign” (yes i misspelled it).
It has serious issues with slop and the limitations of small data, but the rate of progress is really really fast. Opus 4.5 and Gemini were a huge step change.
The language is also improving very fast. not as fast as AI.
The feedback loop is very real even for ordinary programming. The model really resists it though because it’s super hard, but again this is rapidly improving.
I started vibe coding Lean about 3 years ago and I’ve used Lean 3 (which was far worse). It’s my favorite language after churning through idk 30?
A big aspect of being successful with them is not being all or nothing with proofs. It’s very useful to write down properties as executable code and then just not prove them because they still have to type check and fit together and make sense. github.com/lecopivo/scilean is a good example (search “sorry_proof”).
There’s property testing with “plausible” as a nice 80/20 that can be upgraded to full proof at some point.
When the model gets to another jump in capacity, I predict it will emergently design better systems from the feedback needed to prove that they are correct in the first place. Formal Verification has a tendency like optimization to flow through the system in an anti-modular way and if you want to claw modularity back, you have to design it really really well. But ai gives a huge intellectual overhang. Why not let them put their capacity towards making better systems?
Even the documentation system for lean (verso) is (dependently!) typed.
cool quote about smooth operator ... I notice none of the vibe codes are proofs of anything and rather frameworks for using lean. this seems like a waste of tokens - what is your thinking behind this?
There’s 4000 lines of nonstandard analysis which are definitely proofs, including equivalence to the standard definitions.
The frameworks are to improve lean’s programming ecosystem and not just its proving. Metaprogramming is pretty well covered already too, but not ordinary programs.
AI is unreliable as it is. It might make formal verification a bit less work intensive but the last possible place anyone would want the AI hallucinations are in verification.
The whole point I think, though, is that it doesn’t matter. If an LLM hallucinates a proof that passes the proof checker, it’s not a hallucination. Writing and inspecting the spec is unsolved, but for the actual proof checking hallucinations don’t matter at all.
Isnt the actual proof checking what your traditional formal verification tool does? I would have thought that 99% of the work of formal verification would be writing the spec and verifying that it correctly models the problem you are trying to model.
The specification task is indeed a lot of work. Driving the tool to complete the proof is often also a lot of work. There are many fully automatic proof tools. Even the simplest like SAT solvers run into very hard computational complexity limits. Many “interactive” provers are more expressive and allow a human to help guide the tool to the proof. That takes intuition, engineering, etc.