Sleep-time Compute: Beyond Inference Scaling at Test-time
Abstract
Scaling test-time compute has emerged as a key ingredient for enabling large language models (LLMs) to solve difficult problems, but comes with high latency and inference cost. We introduce sleep-time compute, which allows models to “think” offline about contexts before queries are presented: by anticipating what queries users might ask and pre-computing useful quantities, we can significantly reduce the compute requirements at test-time. To demonstrate the efficacy of our method, we create modified versions of two reasoning tasks – Stateful GSM-Symbolic and Stateful AIME. We find that sleep-time compute can reduce the amount of test-time compute needed to achieve the same accuracy by on Stateful GSM-Symbolic and Stateful AIME and that by scaling sleep-time compute we can further increase accuracy by up to 13% on Stateful GSM-Symbolic and 18% on Stateful AIME. Furthermore, we introduce Multi-Query GSM-Symbolic, which extends GSM-Symbolic by including multiple related queries per context. By amortizing sleep-time compute across related queries about the same context using Multi-Query GSM-Symbolic, we can decrease the average cost per query by . We then conduct additional analysis to understand when sleep-time compute is most effective, finding the predictability of the user query to be well correlated with the efficacy of sleep-time compute. Finally, we conduct a case-study of applying sleep-time compute to a realistic agentic SWE task. Code and data released at: https://github.com/letta-ai/sleep-time-compute.
1 Introduction
Test-time scaling has emerged as an effective way to boost LLM performance on challenging tasks by spending more time thinking on difficult problems (OpenAI, 2024; DeepSeek-AI, 2024; Snell et al., 2024; Brown et al., 2024). However, improved performance from test-time compute comes at a significant increase in latency and cost, waiting potentially several minutes for answers and costing up to tens of dollars per query.111https://platform.openai.com/docs/models/o1-pro These drawbacks are in part due to the fact that the current approach to applying test-time compute assumes that problems are stateless, i.e. queries (user queries at test-time) and the contexts (background information) required for answering them are provided to the model together at “test-time.” In practice, this means that if multiple related queries require making similar inferences about the context at “test-time,” the model will have to recompute redundant computations each time, incurring additional latency and cost.
In reality, many LLM applications are inherently stateful, and work in conjunction with persisted, re-used context. A classic example is document question-answering, where documents contextualize responses to questions. Coding agents also operate on a large common repository and participate in multiple rounds of debugging support, while conversational assistants need to maintain the past dialogue. In all these applications, there is context (available documents, a codebase, or conversation history) that is already available before the next user input.
In these settings, we could in principle, make useful inferences about the current state (context) offline before, or even during the user’s next input. We refer to such a process, as sleep-time compute: where inference is done between interactions with the model while it would otherwise be idle in sleep-time. In practice, this is achieved by prompting the model to generate a new context consisting of inferences about the existing context, which may be potentially useful for answering test-time queries. The re-represented context from sleep-time can then be provided in the prompt at test-time, enabling the model to respond to user queries at the accuracy of standard test-time compute but with far lower latencies. For example, a coding assistant at sleep-time may identify architectural patterns, anticipate potential debugging strategies, or infer optimizations prior to the user input. Moreover, users might ask multiple queries about the same context. In these settings, any inferences made during sleep-time can be shared across queries, effectively amortizing the cost of sleep-time compute and reducing the total average cost per query.
To evaluate sleep-time compute, we modify two mathematical reasoning datasets to introduce two datasets – Stateful GSM-Symbolic and Stateful AIME – by splitting the existing problems in these datasets into a context and a question. Using these datasets, we aim to empirically understand the benefits of sleep-time compute on standard test-time compute benchmarks. We show that:
-
•
Sleep-time compute produces a pareto improvement in the test-time compute vs. accuracy curve, reducing the test-time compute needed to achieve the same accuracy by on Stateful GSM-Symbolic and Stateful AIME.
-
•
By scaling up sleep-time compute, we see further pareto improvements, shifting the accuracy up by 13% on Stateful GSM-Symbolic and 18% on Stateful AIME.
-
•
By amortizing sleep-time compute across multiple queries for the same context, we can reduce the average cost per question by .
-
•
We conduct analysis to understand which queries benefit the most from sleep-time compute, finding that sleep-time compute is more effective in settings where the query is more easily predictable from the context.
Finally, we end with case study of applying sleep-time compute to reduce test-time compute in a realistic agentic software engineering task.
2 Related Work
Scaling test-time compute.
Our work builds on recent progress on scaling up computation at test-time for difficult reasoning problems (Snell et al., 2024; DeepSeek-AI, 2024; OpenAI, 2024). Two predominant approaches to test-time scaling have emerged: sequential test-time scaling (OpenAI, 2024; DeepSeek-AI, 2024; Muennighoff et al., 2025; Snell et al., 2024) and parallel test-time scaling (Brown et al., 2024; Snell et al., 2024). While sequential test-time scaling has demonstrated impressive performance improvements, parallel test-time scaling has the advantage of scaling test-time compute without increasing latency. In constrast, we propose an alternative dimension where existing advancements in test-time compute, both sequential and parallel can be applied. Namely, instead of performing inference purely at test-time, we leverage compute on contexts that are available before the actual query arrives.
Speculative decoding in LLMs.
Speculative decoding is a standard technique for reducing latency in decoding with LLMs (Leviathan et al., 2023; Stern et al., 2018; Cai et al., 2024; DeepSeek-AI et al., 2025). Sleep-time compute similarly targets reducing reasoning latency by speculating on the user’s query as well as any potentially helpful reasoning over the context. However, unlike speculative decoding, the generated tokens are used as an input regardless of the user’s actual query, and at test-time the reasoning model uses these generated tokens to help answer the user query more efficiently.
Pre-computation.
Beyond LLMs, a long history of work has explored the trade-off between pre-computation and memory (eg. memory caches Smith (1982) and data cubes for OLAP workloads Gray et al. (1997)). Our work explores the same trade-off between query latency and pre-computation overhead, operating under the assumption that query workload patterns can be reasonably anticipated in advance. sleep-time compute builds on the idea of pre-fetching in traditional operating systems, in the context of LLMs à la Packer et al. (2023), storing frequently used computational results to avoid higher latency at test-time.
3 Sleep-time Compute
In the standard paradigm of applying test-time compute, a user inputs a prompt to the LLM and then the LLM applies test-time compute to help answer the user’s question. However, the provided to the LLM can oftentimes be decomposed into a pre-existing context (eg. a codebase) and a user query (eg. a question about the codebase). When the LLM is not actively responding to the user, it typically still has access to the existing context . During this time, the LLM is typically idling, missing the opportunity to reason about offline: a process we term sleep-time compute.
Test-time compute.
In the test-time compute setting, the user provides along with some context and the model outputs a reasoning trace followed by a final answer . We denote this process, as: , where is the method for using test-time compute with budget , which could include techniques like extended chains of thought or best-of-N. In practice, the user may have multiple queries about the same context , … . In this setting, the model will carry out independent reasoning processes for each , even if they are related to the same context . Ideally, we would be able to reuse related inferences across each to save compute. Moreover, in many cases, is complex and may require carrying out significant processing/inferences in order to provide an answer to . Since, the test-time compute paradigm of assumes that is only available at the same time as , standard test-time compute carries out all of these inferences only after the user provides the query, causing the user to wait up to several minutes for a response. However, in practice we often have access to before and can carry out much of this processing ahead of time.
Sleep-time compute.
During sleep-time we are given the context but not the query . Using just this context , we can use the LLM to infer likely questions and reason about the context ultimately producing a more new re-represented context . We denote this process as: , where can be any standard test-time scaling technique applied towards pre-processing the context at sleep-time. In this work, is implemented by prompting the model to draw inferences and re-write in a way that might be useful at test-time (see Appendix K for more details). After pre-processing the context, we can provide the new context at test-time in place of to produce a final answer to the user’s query: . Since much of the reasoning about has been done ahead of time in this case, we can use a much smaller test-time budget . Moreover, can be shared across different queries about the same context, effectively amortizing the compute required to arrive at across queries, providing a total cost saving.
4 Experimental Setup
Next, we describe the datasets, models, and baselines we use to evaluate sleep-time compute.
4.1 Datasets
We select datasets which represent standard benchmarks for LLM reasoning and test-time scaling, and which demonstrate improvements from scaling test-time compute with state-of-the-art LLMs (either reasoning or non-reasoning).
Stateful datasets.
We introduce two datasets to study applying sleep-time compute in stateful settings, Stateful GSM-Symbolic, and Stateful AIME, where each dataset is derived from splitting the existing datasets into a context and a question (see Figure 2 for an example). Stateful GSM-Symbolic is derived from the P1 and P2 splits of GSM-Symbolic (Mirzadeh et al., 2024), which add one and two clauses respectively to the original GSM8K dataset (Cobbe et al., 2021) to that increase the difficulty. GSM-Symbolic P1 contains 5000 examples and P2 2500 examples. Stateful AIME contains 60 questions combined from AIME 2024 and 2025. In Appendix L and M, we show the breakdown of our results across AIME 2024 and 2025.
Amortization dataset.
To study the effect of related questions that share context, we introduce a new dataset Multi-Query GSM-Symbolic, where each context has multiple queries. To generate multiple queries for a given context, we take Stateful GSM-Symbolic and use o3-mini to generate additional question answer pairs. We synthetically generate additional questions from existing context question pairs in GSM-Symbolic. Appendix C shows the prompt used to generate the additional questions. Figure 20 shows examples contexts and set of questions from the Multi-Query GSM-Symbolic dataset and Table 1 shows the overall dataset statistics.
4.2 Models and Baselines
Models.
On each dataset, we evaluate models which have poor performance when using a small amount of test-time compute, but yield improvements from scaling up test-time compute. Therefore, on GSM-Symbolic, we conduct experiments using GPT-4o-mini and GPT-4o, and on AIME, we conduct experiments using OpenAI’s o1, o3-mini, Anthropic’s Claude Sonnet 3.7 Extended Thinking , and Deepseek-R1 (DeepSeek-AI, 2024). 222https://openai.com/o1/ 333https://www.anthropic.com/claude/sonnet
Baselines
The main baseline we consider is the standard test-time compute setting in which both and are presented to the model for the first time at test-time. Furthermore, to validate that is not trivially predictable from on our Stateful GSM-Symbolic and Stateful AIME datasets, we also compare to a context-only baseline in Appendix I, in which the model is only given and is tasked with directly guessing an answer to the question it guesses is most likely to come next.
5 Experiments and Results
In this section, we carry out experiments to understand the benefits of sleep-time compute. Specifically, we would like to answer each of the following questions using the math reasoning benchmarks introduced above:
-
1.
Can sleep-time compute shift the pareto frontier of test-time compute vs. accuracy?
-
2.
Does scaling sleep-time compute in-turn improve the pareto further?
-
3.
When there are multiple related questions for a single context, can amortizing test-time compute with sleep-time compute provide a total token efficiency benefit?
-
4.
In what settings does sleep-time compute provide the most uplift?
5.1 Improving Pareto Test-Time Trade-off with sleep-time compute
We first determine the test-time compute, accuracy pareto frontier by scaling standard test-time compute sequentially and in parallel. We then study how applying sleep-time compute affects the pareto trade-off.
Scaling test-time-compute sequentially.
For non-reasoning models (GPT-4o and 4o-mini) on Stateful GSM-Symbolic, to vary the amount of test-time compute, we construct prompts that instruct the model to use different amounts of verbosity at test time, eg. “answer directly with a single sentence” vs. “double check your reasoning before outputting the final answer.” The full prompts are in Appendix 18. We use temperature 0 for generation. We see in Figure 3 that there is a tradeoff between accuracy and the amount of test-time compute, and that adding sleep-time compute can move beyond the pareto compute-accuracy curve. In particular, at lower test-time budgets, the performance of sleep-time compute is significantly better than the baseline, achieving performance comparable to that of the baseline with less test-time tokens. However, at the test-tome compute budgets, the test-time compute only baseline slightly outperforms sleep-time compute. We hypothesize that this may be because the standard test-time compute only has the content relevant to the specific question, so there is less distracting information in the prompt.
For reasoning models on Stateful AIME, we scale the amount of test-time compute based on what is available in the API in the case of o1, o3-mini and Claude Sonnet 3.7. Since the Deepseek-R1 API does not provide a way to control test-time compute, we apply the ”budget forcing” and extension prompt from Muennighoff et al. (2025). Figure 4 shows the results for each model on Stateful AIME. We average results over 3 runs for o1, o3-mini and R1. For Claude 3.7 Sonnet, we average over 10 runs as we observed more noise in initial experiments. On all models, we see a significant test-time, accuracy pareto shift from applying sleep-time compute, with the exception of o1, which demonstrates limited gains.
Scaling test-time compute in parallel.
An alternative approach to scaling test-time compute is via parallel sampling, which also has the benefit of maintaining low inference latency. The simplest approach to scaling parallel test-time compute is pass@k (Brown et al., 2024), which makes the unrealistic assumption of having oracle query access to a ground truth verifier at test-time, an assumption which we do not make with sleep-time compute. Therefore, outperforming the pass@k baseline would represent a meaningful improvement over parallel test-time scaling. We apply parallel scaling to the lowest sequential compute setting on each task, since scaling pass@k with higher sequential compute settings would quickly reach token budgets that exceed that of sleep-time compute in the maximum sequential setting. We see that across all tasks and models, sleep-time compute consistently outperforms pass@k parallel scaling at the same test-time token budget, demonstrating that sleep-time compute can be a more effective way to scale inference-time compute than standard parallel test-time scaling.
5.2 Scaling up sleep-time compute
We would like to understand how scaling compute during sleep-time can further effect the pareto shift that we observed in Section 5.1. To scale up the amount of sleep-time compute, for non-reasoning models, we run parallel generations, given input , resulting in . At test-time, the model then receives the inputs concatenated to generate the final answer. On reasoning models, we scale up the amount of sleep-time compute by varying the reasoning effort for o1 and for o3-mini when applying the sleep-time compute prompt. At test-time, we vary the amount of compute in the same way as 5.1.
In Figure 7, we see that further scaling sleep-time compute on Stateful GSM-Symbolic shifts the pareto curve outwards, improving performance by up to 13% at a similar test-time budget. In particular, we see the largest gains on more difficult tasks with stronger models (eg. on P2 with ‘gpt-4o‘), suggesting that on tasks with more complicated contexts additional sleep-time compute can be beneficial. However, in this setting, there seems to be a limit to the number of parallel agents that can improve performance, as we find that 5 parallel generations generally outperforms 10. In Figure 26, we scale up sleep-time compute on Stateful AIME. Similarly, we also see that scaling compute at sleep-time generally shifts the pareto curve outward, improving performance by up to 18%.
5.3 Amortizing sleep-time compute across queries with shared context
We want to understand how the total cost of inference can be improved by applying sleep-time compute in settings where each context has multiple queries. Since at test-time, there are strict latency constraints, and latency optimized inference can be roughly more expensive, we model the total cost of inference between both sleep-time and test-time, by up-weighing the cost of test-time tokens.444https://docs.databricks.com/aws/en/machine-learning/foundation-model-apis/prov-throughput-run-benchmark Specifically, we consider a simple linear model where tokens generated at test-time are a factor the cost of the tokens at sleep-time. In our analysis, we set Our analysis can be generalized to different cost functions that consider non-linear user-utility. Figure 9 shows the results for different number of questions per context. We see that we can decrease the average cost per query by up to when there are queries per context, compared to the single-query baseline.
5.4 Predictable queries benefit more from sleep-time compute
We would like to better understand for what contexts sleep-time compute is most useful. Since the utility of sleep-time compute relies on there being some shared information or structure between the context and the query, we hypothesize that sleep-time compute may be most effective in settings where the query is more predictable from the context. To test this on Stateful GSM-Symbolic, we first quantify how predictable a given query is by measuring the log-probability of the question given the context under the Llama2-70B base model (Touvron et al., 2023). In Appendix E, we include examples of highly predictable and unpredictable questions under this notion of question predictability. We see from these examples, that our notion of question predictability generally aligns with the intuition that contexts where the query pattern is more predictable benefit most from sleep-time compute. The more predictable questions are far simpler and the less predictable ones are more complex.
Using our question predictability score, we then bin each example in Stateful GSM-Symbolic into five quantiles according to its predictability score and report the accuracy within each bin. For this experiment, we use the “Verbosity 0” prompt. In Figure 10, we see that on both GSM8K-Symbolic P1 and P2, the accuracy gap between sleep-time compute and standard test-time compute widens as the questions become more predictable from the context confirming our hypothesis that indeed sleep-time compute is most beneficial in settings where the question can be predicted from the context.
6 A Case Study of Sleep-time Compute for Agentic SWE
In this section, we evaluate sleep-time compute in a realistic multi-turn agentic setting. To this end, we introduce SWE-Features, a software engineering benchmark focused on tasks that require: (1) editing multiple files within a repository, and (2) implementing new features.
SWE-Features.
In contrast to popular benchmarks like SWE-Bench (Jimenez et al., 2024), which involve modifying a small number of files, we propose a new dataset called SWE-Features, which collects PRs which modify at least three files (see Appendix D for more details). In this setting, we use the PR that we want to solve as and select several related PRs for . At sleep-time the agent is allowed to explore the repository before producing .
Evaluation.
Since the PRs are scraped from GitHub, there are not straightforward tests to use for evaluation. Instead, we compare the predicted set of modified files with the ground truth list of modified files, and report the F1 score between the set of modified files by our agent and the set of modified files in the ground-truth set (see Appendix D for details).
Results.
Figure 11 shows consist trends with Section 5.1 for SWE-Features: at lower test-time compute budgets, leveraging sleep-time compute can improve performance, achieving up to roughly a decrease in test-time tokens. However, when the test-time compute budget is high, using only test-time compute can perform better. Additionally, we observe that in the high test-time budget setting standard test-time compute has higher precision and comparable recall. We hypothesize that, using only test-time compute tends to begin editing files earlier and usually edits fewer files overall. In contrast, the agent with sleep-time compute, having explored more files during the test-time phase, tends to edit more files, which may lead to slightly lower precision.
7 Discussion and Limitations
Query predictability and allocating sleep-time compute
In Section 5.4, we found that sleep-time compute is most effective when the queries are predictable from the context. In settings where the queries are challenging to predict or unrelated to the context, sleep-time compute will be less effective. In these settings, it may be preferable to apply standard test-time scaling instead. An interesting direction for future work is identifying which contexts may have predictable questions and optimally allocating inference compute between sleep-time and test-time across different contexts and queries.
Extending sleep-time compute beyond context-query decomposition.
In our experiments, we make the simplifying assumption that interactions fall into two phases: sleep-time and test-time. However, real-world LLM use cases can be more complex, with multiple rounds of interaction and context modifications between rounds (e.g. multiple edits to a code-base). Moreover, the length of the sleep-time may also vary significantly between interactions (eg. short spans between user typing or days of inactivity). Future work should extend sleep-time compute paradigm to more elegantly handle these scenarios.
Sleep-time compute as representation learning over tokens.
Our approach to applying compute at sleep-time resembles representation learning. We first transform the context into a representation that is more amenable to answering test-time queries, and then we utilize that representation at test-time to rapidly answer queries. Unlike traditional representation learning (Bengio et al., 2014), which typically operates in model parameter or activation space, we instead form representations in the space of natural language. This approach builds on recent work which implements statistical modeling techniques in the space of natural language using modern LLMs (Zhong et al., 2022; 2025). Future work should further explore the potential for sleep-time compute to enable the learning of useful natural language representations.
Synthetic data generation via sleep-time compute.
Due to limits on the amount of internet data available, in order to support the continued scaling of LLM pretraining, recent works have began exploring methods for generating synthetic pretraining data (Yang et al., 2024; Gunasekar et al., 2023). One emerging approach to synthetic data generation involves using test-time compute to generate improved data (Bansal et al., 2024; DeepSeek-AI et al., 2025). Generating such data at pretraining scale will be very expensive, and future work could explore using sleep-time compute to help amortize some of this cost across related queries, or using the output of sleep-time compute itself as a form of synthetic data.
References
- Bansal et al. (2024) Hritik Bansal, Arian Hosseini, Rishabh Agarwal, Vinh Q. Tran, and Mehran Kazemi. Smaller, weaker, yet better: Training llm reasoners via compute-optimal sampling, 2024. URL https://arxiv.org/abs/2408.16737.
- Bengio et al. (2014) Yoshua Bengio, Aaron Courville, and Pascal Vincent. Representation learning: A review and new perspectives, 2014. URL https://arxiv.org/abs/1206.5538.
- Brown et al. (2024) Bradley Brown, Jordan Juravsky, Ryan Ehrlich, Ronald Clark, Quoc V Le, Christopher Ré, and Azalia Mirhoseini. Large language monkeys: Scaling inference compute with repeated sampling. arXiv preprint arXiv:2407.21787, 2024.
- Cai et al. (2024) Tianle Cai, Yuhong Li, Zhengyang Geng, Hongwu Peng, Jason D. Lee, Deming Chen, and Tri Dao. Medusa: Simple llm inference acceleration framework with multiple decoding heads, 2024. URL https://arxiv.org/abs/2401.10774.
- Cobbe et al. (2021) Karl Cobbe, Vineet Kosaraju, Mohammad Bavarian, Mark Chen, Heewoo Jun, Lukasz Kaiser, Matthias Plappert, Jerry Tworek, Jacob Hilton, Reiichiro Nakano, et al. Training verifiers to solve math word problems. arXiv preprint arXiv:2110.14168, 2021.
- DeepSeek-AI (2024) DeepSeek-AI. Deepseek-r1: Incentivizing reasoning capability in llms via reinforcement learning. 2024.
- DeepSeek-AI et al. (2025) DeepSeek-AI, Aixin Liu, Bei Feng, Bing Xue, Bingxuan Wang, Bochao Wu, Chengda Lu, Chenggang Zhao, Chengqi Deng, Chenyu Zhang, Chong Ruan, Damai Dai, Daya Guo, Dejian Yang, Deli Chen, Dongjie Ji, Erhang Li, Fangyun Lin, Fucong Dai, Fuli Luo, Guangbo Hao, Guanting Chen, Guowei Li, H. Zhang, Han Bao, Hanwei Xu, Haocheng Wang, Haowei Zhang, Honghui Ding, Huajian Xin, Huazuo Gao, Hui Li, Hui Qu, J. L. Cai, Jian Liang, Jianzhong Guo, Jiaqi Ni, Jiashi Li, Jiawei Wang, Jin Chen, Jingchang Chen, Jingyang Yuan, Junjie Qiu, Junlong Li, Junxiao Song, Kai Dong, Kai Hu, Kaige Gao, Kang Guan, Kexin Huang, Kuai Yu, Lean Wang, Lecong Zhang, Lei Xu, Leyi Xia, Liang Zhao, Litong Wang, Liyue Zhang, Meng Li, Miaojun Wang, Mingchuan Zhang, Minghua Zhang, Minghui Tang, Mingming Li, Ning Tian, Panpan Huang, Peiyi Wang, Peng Zhang, Qiancheng Wang, Qihao Zhu, Qinyu Chen, Qiushi Du, R. J. Chen, R. L. Jin, Ruiqi Ge, Ruisong Zhang, Ruizhe Pan, Runji Wang, Runxin Xu, Ruoyu Zhang, Ruyi Chen, S. S. Li, Shanghao Lu, Shangyan Zhou, Shanhuang Chen, Shaoqing Wu, Shengfeng Ye, Shengfeng Ye, Shirong Ma, Shiyu Wang, Shuang Zhou, Shuiping Yu, Shunfeng Zhou, Shuting Pan, T. Wang, Tao Yun, Tian Pei, Tianyu Sun, W. L. Xiao, Wangding Zeng, Wanjia Zhao, Wei An, Wen Liu, Wenfeng Liang, Wenjun Gao, Wenqin Yu, Wentao Zhang, X. Q. Li, Xiangyue Jin, Xianzu Wang, Xiao Bi, Xiaodong Liu, Xiaohan Wang, Xiaojin Shen, Xiaokang Chen, Xiaokang Zhang, Xiaosha Chen, Xiaotao Nie, Xiaowen Sun, Xiaoxiang Wang, Xin Cheng, Xin Liu, Xin Xie, Xingchao Liu, Xingkai Yu, Xinnan Song, Xinxia Shan, Xinyi Zhou, Xinyu Yang, Xinyuan Li, Xuecheng Su, Xuheng Lin, Y. K. Li, Y. Q. Wang, Y. X. Wei, Y. X. Zhu, Yang Zhang, Yanhong Xu, Yanhong Xu, Yanping Huang, Yao Li, Yao Zhao, Yaofeng Sun, Yaohui Li, Yaohui Wang, Yi Yu, Yi Zheng, Yichao Zhang, Yifan Shi, Yiliang Xiong, Ying He, Ying Tang, Yishi Piao, Yisong Wang, Yixuan Tan, Yiyang Ma, Yiyuan Liu, Yongqiang Guo, Yu Wu, Yuan Ou, Yuchen Zhu, Yuduan Wang, Yue Gong, Yuheng Zou, Yujia He, Yukun Zha, Yunfan Xiong, Yunxian Ma, Yuting Yan, Yuxiang Luo, Yuxiang You, Yuxuan Liu, Yuyang Zhou, Z. F. Wu, Z. Z. Ren, Zehui Ren, Zhangli Sha, Zhe Fu, Zhean Xu, Zhen Huang, Zhen Zhang, Zhenda Xie, Zhengyan Zhang, Zhewen Hao, Zhibin Gou, Zhicheng Ma, Zhigang Yan, Zhihong Shao, Zhipeng Xu, Zhiyu Wu, Zhongyu Zhang, Zhuoshu Li, Zihui Gu, Zijia Zhu, Zijun Liu, Zilin Li, Ziwei Xie, Ziyang Song, Ziyi Gao, and Zizheng Pan. Deepseek-v3 technical report, 2025. URL https://arxiv.org/abs/2412.19437.
- Gray et al. (1997) Jim Gray, Surajit Chaudhuri, Adam Bosworth, Andrew Layman, Don Reichart, Murali Venkatrao, Frank Pellow, and Hamid Pirahesh. Data cube: A relational aggregation operator generalizing group-by, cross-tab, and sub-totals. Data mining and knowledge discovery, 1:29–53, 1997.
- Gunasekar et al. (2023) Suriya Gunasekar, Yi Zhang, Jyoti Aneja, Caio César Teodoro Mendes, Allie Del Giorno, Sivakanth Gopi, Mojan Javaheripi, Piero Kauffmann, Gustavo de Rosa, Olli Saarikivi, Adil Salim, Shital Shah, Harkirat Singh Behl, Xin Wang, Sébastien Bubeck, Ronen Eldan, Adam Tauman Kalai, Yin Tat Lee, and Yuanzhi Li. Textbooks are all you need, 2023. URL https://arxiv.org/abs/2306.11644.
- Jimenez et al. (2024) Carlos E. Jimenez, John Yang, Alexander Wettig, Shunyu Yao, Kexin Pei, Ofir Press, and Karthik R. Narasimhan. Swe-bench: Can language models resolve real-world github issues? In ICLR. OpenReview.net, 2024.
- Leviathan et al. (2023) Yaniv Leviathan, Matan Kalman, and Yossi Matias. Fast inference from transformers via speculative decoding, 2023. URL https://arxiv.org/abs/2211.17192.
- Mirzadeh et al. (2024) Iman Mirzadeh, Keivan Alizadeh, Hooman Shahrokhi, Oncel Tuzel, Samy Bengio, and Mehrdad Farajtabar. Gsm-symbolic: Understanding the limitations of mathematical reasoning in large language models. arXiv preprint arXiv:2410.05229, 2024.
- Muennighoff et al. (2025) Niklas Muennighoff, Zitong Yang, Weijia Shi, Xiang Lisa Li, Li Fei-Fei, Hannaneh Hajishirzi, Luke Zettlemoyer, Percy Liang, Emmanuel Candès, and Tatsunori Hashimoto. s1: Simple test-time scaling, 2025. URL https://arxiv.org/abs/2501.19393.
- OpenAI (2024) OpenAI. Openai o1 system card, 2024. URL https://arxiv.org/abs/2412.16720.
- Packer et al. (2023) Charles Packer, Sarah Wooders, Kevin Lin, Vivian Fang, Shishir G Patil, Ion Stoica, and Joseph E Gonzalez. Memgpt: Towards llms as operating systems. arXiv preprint arXiv:2310.08560, 2023.
- Smith (1982) Alan Jay Smith. Cache memories. ACM Computing Surveys (CSUR), 14(3):473–530, 1982.
- Snell et al. (2024) Charlie Snell, Jaehoon Lee, Kelvin Xu, and Aviral Kumar. Scaling llm test-time compute optimally can be more effective than scaling model parameters, 2024. URL https://arxiv.org/abs/2408.03314.
- Stern et al. (2018) Mitchell Stern, Noam Shazeer, and Jakob Uszkoreit. Blockwise parallel decoding for deep autoregressive models, 2018. URL https://arxiv.org/abs/1811.03115.
- Touvron et al. (2023) Hugo Touvron, Louis Martin, Kevin Stone, Peter Albert, Amjad Almahairi, Yasmine Babaei, Nikolay Bashlykov, Soumya Batra, Prajjwal Bhargava, Shruti Bhosale, et al. Llama 2: Open foundation and fine-tuned chat models. arXiv preprint arXiv:2307.09288, 2023.
- Yang et al. (2024) Zitong Yang, Neil Band, Shuangping Li, Emmanuel Candès, and Tatsunori Hashimoto. Synthetic continued pretraining, 2024. URL https://arxiv.org/abs/2409.07431.
- Zhong et al. (2022) Ruiqi Zhong, Charlie Snell, Dan Klein, and Jacob Steinhardt. Describing differences between text distributions with natural language, 2022. URL https://arxiv.org/abs/2201.12323.
- Zhong et al. (2025) Ruiqi Zhong, Heng Wang, Dan Klein, and Jacob Steinhardt. Explaining datasets in words: Statistical models with natural language parameters, 2025. URL https://arxiv.org/abs/2409.08466.
Appendix A Prompts
Prompts for varying the amount of test-time compute.
Appendix B Examples of Stateful AIME
Appendix C Details on Multi-Query GSM-Symbolic
We include an example from Multi-Query GSM-Symbolic in Figure 20, and details on the dataset size in Table 1.
| Context |
| When Sofia watches her brother, she gets out a variety of toys for him. The bag of building blocks has 33 blocks in it. The bin of stuffed animals has 5 stuffed animals inside. The number of action figures in the action figure pack is twice the number of blocks and stuffed animals combined. The crayon box has 12 different colors of crayon, and the sticker book has 9 pages, each with 13 stickers. The tower of stacking rings has 28 multicolored rings on it. Sofia recently bought a tube of bouncy balls, bringing her total number of items for her brother up to 320. |
| Original Question |
| How many bouncy balls came in the tube? |
| Generated Questions |
| • How many action figures does the pack contain? • What is the total number of stickers in the sticker book? • How many total items did Sofia have before adding the tube of bouncy balls? • If Sofia had received a tube with 10 extra bouncy balls, what would be the new total number of items? • What is the sum of the building blocks and stuffed animals? • How many stacking rings are on the tower? • What is the combined total of building blocks, action figures, and stacking rings? • If Sofia gave away 3 stuffed animals, how many stuffed animals would remain in the bin? • What is the sum of the building blocks, stuffed animals, and crayons? • If Sofia divided the 49 bouncy balls equally into 7 baskets, how many balls would each basket contain? |
| Dataset | # Questions Total | # Contexts Total | # Original Questions | # Generated Questions |
|---|---|---|---|---|
| P1 | 12043 | 1095 | 1095 | 10948 |
| P2 | 5497 | 500 | 500 | 4997 |
Appendix D SWE-Features Details
To construct SWE-Features benchmark, we collect pull requests (PRs) from large open-source repositories and apply the following filtering process: (1) We identify all pull requests that modify at least three files with filenames ending in .py or .js. (2) We then use gpt-4o-mini to filter these pull requests based on their title and body, retaining only those that meet the following criteria: (a) the title and body clearly describe the PR; (b) the PR introduces new functionality rather than fixing bugs; and (c) the PR is independent and not obviously linked to other issues.
This pipeline results in a benchmark where each example: (1) involves adding a new feature that spans multiple files, requiring a broader understanding of the repository; and (2) is self-contained and solvable without additional issue context. We apply this process to two repositories—Aider-AI/aider and comfyanonymous/ComfyUI—resulting in 18 and 15 PRs respectively, for a total of 33 examples. Representative examples are provided in Appendix G. Then using a total of 33 examples, we employ claude-sonnet-3-7-20250219 to cluster pull requests (PRs) from the ComfyUI and Aider repositories into several groups. This clustering allows us to identify a set of relevant pull requests for each target PR, which can then be provided to the agent as context () during repository exploration. For example, in the ComfyUI repository, PR #5293 and PR #931 are grouped into the same cluster. Thus, when processing PR #931, we organize the title, body, and changed_files of PR #5293 to serve as contextual information during sleep-time.
When sleep-time compute is enabled, we first supply the content of PR #5293 to the agent, allowing it to explore the repository and summarize its understanding ahead of time. In contrast, for the baseline without sleep-time compute, the agent receives the content of PR #5293 only at test time, alongside the title and body of PR #931. The prompts used in these setups are provided in Appendix H.
For the repository comfyanonymous/ComfyUI, we have the following clustered results:
For the repository Aider-AI/aider we have:
To control the budget during test-time, we fix the total number of steps (controlled by the argument max_chaining_steps in Letta framework) to be a certain number. We put the following instructions in the system prompt:
After each step – for example, if the maximum number of steps is 20 and the current step is 4– we append ”[Step: 4/20]” to the end of the tool_return message. We found that explicitly indicating the current and total steps significantly improves agent performance, especially in low-budget settings.
Evaluation.
For each PR, we compare the set of files predicted to be modified with the ground truth list of modified files. Specifically, for each pull request, we have the attribute changed_files (as shown in the examples in Appendix G) where each file has the status as either modified or new, and our evaluation is on the files with status modified. Note that the agent is still instructed to implement the required functionality in a Docker environment and write test functions to validate the implementations. However, after the agent makes the modifications, we extract the modified files and calculate the F1 score between the set of modified files by our agent and the set of modified files in the ground-truth set.
Appendix E Examples of Predictable and Unpredictable Questions
Least predictable Stateful GSM-Symbolic P1 question:
Most predictable Stateful GSM-Symbolic P1 question:
Least predictable Stateful GSM-Symbolic P2 question:
Most predictable Stateful GSM-Symbolic P2 question:
Appendix F Implementation of rethink_memory and finish_rethinking
Appendix G SWE-Features Examples
Each example in SWE-Features has the following attributes: [’repo’, ’pr_number’, ’title’, ’user_login’, ’state’, ’body’, ’changed_files_count’, ’changed_files’, ’base_commit’]. We show some examples here to better deliver a sense of what this dataset looks like:
Appendix H Prompts for SWE-Features
When the sleep-time compute is turned off, the prompt is as below:
When the sleep-time compute is turned on, we first use the following prompt to ask the agent to explore the repository with all pull requests one by one:
After exploring the repository with all relevant pull requests, we give the agent the following prompt as the final prompt to start working on the issue at test time:
Appendix I Context-Only Baseline
To check that the questions in Stateful AIME and Stateful GSM-Symbolic are not trivially guessable, we compare sleep-time compute against a context-only baseline, which only provides the model with , expecting the LLM to guess the most likely question and output the answer to whatever that question might be. We see on both Stateful AIME in Figure 22 and Stateful GSM-Symbolic in Figure 21 that sleep-time compute significantly outperforms the context-only baseline, demonstrating that the questions in our datasets are not trivially predictable from the context.
Appendix J Stateful AIME Construction
To construct the examples for Stateful AIME, we split each AIME 2024 and 2025 into a sequence of “statements”, which correspond to punctuation separated stentences in the problem. Similar to how we construct Stateful GSM-Symbolic, we use all but the last statement as the context, and the final statement as the query. There are a couple of edge cases where the question is posed in e.g. the second to last statement rather than the last statement. In these cases, we manually rearrange the statements to ensure the query being used corresponds to the question. In a few cases, there is only one statement in the problem. In these cases, the context is empty.
AIME includes a latex representation of figures. However, these latex figures can leak information about the answer: for example, these latex figures can contain exact information about the lengths of the sides in a geometry problem, giving away the answer. In these cases we first ensure that the problem is solvable without the figure and then manually strip the figure latex from the problem context.
Appendix K Implementation Details
We implement sleep-time compute via function calling. When applying sleep-time compute, the model is given access to two functions, rethink_memory and finish_rethinking. The rethink_memory function takes as input a new string, and replaces the current context and replaces the current context with the new string. The finish_rethinking function terminates the sleep-time compute process. The model is allowed to call the function rethink_memory for up to 10 times.