Are you vibe coding or are you a gentic
engineering? The difference is massive.
Keep that question in mind as you look
at one of the best engineering teams on
the planet to determine if they're vibe
coding or agentic engineering. Stripe
engineers are shipping 1,300 pull
requests every single week. Get this.
There is zero human written code and
they're doing it right. Imagine what
will happen to their insane numbers of
1.9 trillion in total volume up 34%
which is the equivalent to 1.6 of global
GDP. Stripe's doing 1 billion this year
and they power all of the best companies
that you and I use and you yourself
might be running on Stripe as well. What
happens when Stripe multiplies all this
with agents? And not just agents, what
happens when they multiply it with their
custom end-to-end solution they're
calling minions, fully unattended coding
agents that start from a Slack message
and end in a production ready PR. This
is Stripe's oneshot endto-end coding
agent. To me, the minions aren't even
the interesting part here. The
interesting stat here to me is that
their agents operate a code base with
millions of lines of code operating a
uncommon stack with a number of
homegrown libraries that are unique to
Stripe and therefore unknown to LLMs. On
top of that, the stakes that Stripe
operates in are extremely high. The code
they write moves over 1 trillion per
year of payment volume. They have a
number of real world dependencies,
regulatory and compliance obligations
that their code must honor. Now, here's
a simple important question for you. Do
you think Stripe can afford to vibe
code? I personally have written millions
of lines of code with agents and without
agents. I've been building with agents
since it was first possible way, way
back in the day when we were using GPT
3.5 Turbo. Many engineers don't even
know that model exists or once existed.
So allow me to clarify these terms a
little bit. Aentic engineering is
knowing what will happen in your system
so well you don't need to look. Vibe
coding is not knowing and not looking.
It's very clear stripe engineers are
agentic engineering. And in this video
we'll break down stripes aentic layer so
you can take the best pieces and add it
to your agentic systems. Vibe coding is
the lowest hanging fruit. When you
agentic engineer systems just like
Stripe has, from the prompt to your
skills to your custom agents to your
agent harness all the way up through
your tech stack, you capitalize on the
greatest opportunity for engineers to
ever exist. Agents,
let's look at their agendic system at a
high level so that we can analyze the
key pieces of their system. If these
components interest you, definitely
stick around. We're going to be breaking
down Stripe's key components. And as we
do this, you'll see what you have and
what you're missing. All right. So, the
first thing is the API layer. They have
a way to communicate to their agents. As
you'll see, they have many ways to do
this. Then they have a warm devbox pool.
What is this? This is an agent sandbox,
a space to place their agent. Fantastic.
They then have the agent harness. Stripe
built their agent harness. They forked
it from a tool we'll cover in a second
here. And then they have this blueprint
engine, the marriage of the old world
and the new world, code and agents. This
is super super important. This single
piece has given Stripe a massive edge.
You'll see why in a second. All right.
Then we have the rules file. How did
they manage the context problem? Agents
cannot read their 100 million line of
code codebase. So how do they solve that
problem? We'll then talk about the meta
layer of their tool shed. You can
imagine they have hundreds of tools and
tens of services that they want their
agents to operate with. How do they
solve that problem? They built a tool
shed. All right. Then of course they
have a way to validate all their agents
work. This is a critical validation
layer that they can use to give their
agents feedback and to validate that
they're not breaking existing working
features that's helping them generate
and maintain that movement of that $1
trillion. All right, so we're talking
about real stakes that the Stripe
engineers are facing. All right, this is
not a green field rapid prototype
application. All right, these are
serious stakes with real world
consequences. And then of course you
need a place to review your agents work.
They're using GitHub PRs. Everyone's
using GitHub PRS. This is the standard.
Nothing new here. All right. But these
are the critical pieces. We're going to
walk through these piece by piece and
understand how they put these together
to build their Agentic layer. Let's go
ahead and start with their minions. So
what is Stripe's take on agentic coding?
Let's find out. Aentic coding has gone
from new and exciting to table stakes.
Unattended coding agents have gone from
possibility to reality. You know, Stripe
engineers know what they're talking
about because this is true. If you are
not agentic coding, the gap between you
and the agent coding team within a week,
within a month is going to be
astronomical. Okay? It's going to be
exponential. This is the last moment to
hop on the train. Stripe minions are
Stripe's homegrown coding agents.
They're fully unattended, built to
oneshot tasks. Thousands of pull
requests merge each week. So one week
goes by, Stripe engineers merge a
thousand pull requests. Let's just
really understand that scale. All right.
And as I mentioned, they contain no
human written code. They realize you
have to stop coding to get the real
scale, to get the real power out of
these agents. You work on the agents,
not the application. Right? This is a
weird mindset shift that you need to
make if you're going to be building with
agents. Now, interesting to note here,
our developers can still plan and
collaborate with traditional agent
decoding tools, Claude and Cursor. But
in a world where one of our most
constrained resources is developer
attention, the agents allow for
parallelization of tasks. This is super
super super critical. All right, they
realize that the most important resource
and really any software company's most
important resource is your developers
time. It's your developer attention. And
when you maximize the leverage your
developers get, you can do crazy things
like this. They see their engineers
spinning up multiple minions in parallel
and able to solve multiple problems at
the same time in different conditions.
All right, so this is fantastic. So the
first thing we need to figure out is why
they built the minions in the first
place. Why did they build it themselves?
What's the point of this? Isn't cloud
code good enough? Vibe coding a
prototype from scratch is fundamentally
different from contributing to Stripe's
codebase. Okay, interesting. Say more.
Stress codebase encompasses hundreds of
millions of code across a few large
repositories. Okay. Written in Ruby,
uncommon stack, homegrown libraries,
LLMs don't have it baked in, right? It's
not in the models training data. Stakes
are high. Stripe moves over 1 trillion
per year in payment volume. As
mentioned, they have real world
dependencies and compliance obligations.
LLM agents are really great at building
from scratch when there are no
constraints on the system. However,
iterating on any codebase of scale,
complexity, and maturity is inherently
much harder. Very, very true. Engineers
build sophisticated models to make
changes inside their large repo. This is
huge. And we talk about this on the
channel all the time. Specialization is
how you win. When you're building a
great product, it is literally a
specialized solution to a specialized
problem. So, why would you stop at your
tooling? Your tooling and your code must
also be specialized. So, this is why
they built their own custom agent. It's
because they're solving specific
problems in specific ways better than
anyone. And again, this is a theme we
talk about on the channel all the time.
Specialization is your advantage. And in
last week's video, we talked about the
PI coding agent because there are many
coding agents, but this one is mine. We
emphasized this very idea. You can
customize your prompt. You can customize
your skills. You can customize your
custom agents and you can specialize
your agent harness. The more you're
specializing, the more you're building
specific solutions to specific problems,
the bigger your edge is. And the more
you distance yourself from the out-
of-the-box experiences that a lot of
agentic coding tools are driving
everyone toward, the better off you're
going to be. So, Stripe built minions to
solve their specific problem and to
operate their large code base better
than anyone. Makes sense, right? Big
shout out to everyone who shared that
video. That one went absolutely viral
and for a good reason. Engineers are
realizing that we don't want to be super
locked in to a single tool like cloud
code or cursor or codeex or whatever.
Every tool is going to have a problem,
but the tool that won't have a problem
is the one you customize to solve your
specific problems better than anyone.
There are many coding agents, but this
one is mine. I love this slogan. Let's
see how Stripe customized their minions.
So, what is it like to use a minion?
Right away, we jump into another
critical idea. There are several entry
points for minions. They're designed to
integrate as ergonomically as possible
where Stripe engineers are. All right,
so they use a CLI, a web interface, and
they have Slack. Already they have three
points of contact for kicking off their
API, I assume, right? They they have a
separate application which kicks off
their agents, right? Their pool of
agents, but they have multiple ways to
interface with that primary service.
Very important. And so we can see here,
you know, here's a clear example of an
engineer in Stripe using that at symbol
at devbox and then they write their
prompt to the agent, right? Makes sense.
Nothing new there. Okay. And so we can
see here they have a custom UI that they
built, right? They have an interface to
allow them to interface with their
custom agent. So you know on the left
you can see kind of a typical view. We
have that log of tools and the thought
process that their agents go through.
And then on the right we can see that
they have all the modified files. So
they can see very very quickly what's
going on with that agent. And then of
course in the top right here they have
their actions. All right, so create pull
request. And I'm sure they have some
prompt interface here as well. So nice
and simple, very concise. You can see
that they're just surfacing the most
important information. And this hints at
another key aspect of your agents and
your agentic system. You need to be able
to observe what's going on. Once a task
has been completed, a minion will create
a branch, pushes it to CI, and prepares
a pull request following Stripe's PR
template. And then they're going to
request another review from a Stripe
engineer. And they can also iterate. So
this is a classic end of process setup.
When you're a genta coding, you show up
at the beginning and the end during
planning and during review and ideally
not once in the middle. All right? And
that is what creates an outloop agent
coding system. You just write the prompt
and you just do the review. There's
inloop agent coding and then there's
outloop agent coding. All right? We'll
circle back to that idea in a second. So
how do their minions actually work? A
minion starts in an isolated developer
environment or a dev box. Fascinating.
So, this is a concept we've talked about
on the channel. They're giving their
agents their own environment to operate
in, right? Which is the same type of
machine that Stripes engineers write on.
This is a simple yet powerful idea. If
you want your agent to do what you can,
you must give it the tools and the
environment that you have. So, Stripe
realizes this. They reuse their
developer setup for their agents. They
give them everything that the engineer
has. Super super powerful idea here.
Dead boxes are pre-warmed, so one can be
spun up in 10 seconds. Love that. Uh,
not very fast, but for the machine that
they're booting up, which I think
they'll mention in a moment, that is
very fast. They're booting up full-on
AWS EC2 instances. All right, with
Stripe's code and services preloaded,
they're isolated. This is a safe space
to place their agent. And they do this
so that they can run minions on dev
boxes without human permission checks.
Of course, this also gives you
parallelization without the overhead of
something like Git Work trees, which
just falls apart at certain scales. All
right, after some time, the Git Work
trees just fall apart. You're going to
need your own dedicated device. I have a
Mac Mini here as a local personal kind
of private device. But recently, I also
just said, "Screw it. I'm going to need
more scale." And I started spinning up
entire dev boxes for my agents on, you
know, use your favorite cloud hosting
tool, GCP, AWS, and some of the other
ephemeral agent sandbox tools like E2B,
modal, so on so forth. But this is a
really big idea, right? Um, the more
autonomy you give your agents and the
more you set up their environment to be
yours, the more they can act and perform
as you would. The core agent loop runs
on a fork of blocks coding agent, goose.
One of the first widely used coding
agents, which they forked early on. So
shout out Goose. They took this and they
customized the orchestration flow in an
opinionated way to interle agent loops
and deterministic code. Huge huge huge
idea here and they're going to expand on
this even more in a moment here with one
of the big ideas they talk about later
which is their blueprint engine. Okay,
so this is a huge huge huge idea. Let me
just emphasize this. You want to be
interle agent loop with deterministic
code and what type of operations right
we're talking get liners and most
importantly testing. Okay, this lets
your agents, your system operate with
feedback. And this gives you the best of
both worlds. You get the deterministic
world and the non-deterministic
reasoning creativity world. And they
explicitly say that here they run a mix
of creativity of the agent with
asurances that they'll always complete
stripe specific steps like llinters. So
here we have stripe agentic engineering
determinism with agents. All right. So a
couple additional things to note here.
connected to MCP. They use cursor and
clawed code and some conditions. They
operate agent rule files. We'll talk
about that more in a second. This solves
the large context problem for Stripe.
All agent rules are conditionally
applied based on subdirectories. Super
important. They have MCP as I mentioned.
They have this tool shed idea which is
basically a meta tool to help them
select one or more of their 400 MCP
tools. Okay. A really big piece of why
this blog post is so incredible, you
know, shout out to the Stripe engineers,
shout out to Alistar Gray, is the fact
that they're operating at such a massive
scale, at such success, and they're
still gaining massive value from their
agents and from their agentic layer that
they're building. All right, managers
are built with a goal of oneshotting,
but if they don't, the key is to give
them feedback. Key key idea. Two more
ideas here. We seek to shift feedback
left when thinking about developer
productivity. The best thing for humans
and agents is basically you want the
issues to happen earlier rather than
later, right? On the engineers's device,
on the agents device as early in the
process as possible. All right? And then
if local testing doesn't catch anything,
they have a whole suite of tests over 3
million tests that run upon push. Key
idea here, they figured out a way to
selectively run tests on push. All
right? And they're choosing from many of
3 million tests. Okay? And this is going
to, as you can imagine, offer feedback
to their agentic system. Now, here's
something that I would critique Stripe
on a little bit here. Due to the cost
constraints, they only let their minion
run at most two rounds of CI. All right,
so you can imagine at this scale that
they have to just limit this for it to
be costefficient. This is where I would
push back a little bit. We'll talk about
that later, but this is a interesting
thing here, right? So, they basically
limited the rounds of feedback for their
minion to just two. This is part one of
their blog. Let's look at part two and
dig into some of the details of some of
these key nodes, right? Specifically,
their agent sandbox and their powerful
blueprint engine because their blueprint
engine sits at the center of how they
operate their strike minions at scale.
So, here's part two, dev boxes hot and
ready. So for maximum effectiveness,
their minion agents requires a cloud
developer environment that's
paralyzable, predictable, and isolated.
So this is very clearly an agent
sandbox. Okay, it gives them a place to
operate at scale with full autonomy. And
if something goes wrong, if they destroy
something, the agent can't cause as much
damage as they could if they were
operating your device or god forbid a
device connected to the production
system. And I completely agree.
Containerization, get work trees,
they're great, but they have hard limits
and it's hard to really really scale
without giving each agent their own
device, right? Again, if you want your
agent to perform like you, give them the
tools that you have. All right. What
else can we learn about Stripes Devbox
here? So, very cool. Stripes Devbox is a
full-on computer, right? It's an EC2
instance and it contains their source
code and services under development.
Very, very cool. Many engineers use one
dev box per tasks and this means that
every engineer might have half a dozen
running at a time. Check out how awesome
this is, right? They're allowing their
engineers to scale their impact by
allowing parallelization of their agents
and every agent has their own sandbox.
Okay, so a question I would ask them is,
do their minions have access to
additional minion sub agents or not even
sub agents, other primary agents that
are specialized across their code base?
Very cool stuff here. This is again part
of their agentic system, right? It's
giving and servicing scale very very
quickly so that engineers can knock out
more problems than ever before. All
right, we want it to feel effortless to
spin up new dev boxes. Right, ready in
10 seconds. Hot and ready. So fantastic.
The raw pieces of engineering should
feel effortless. You want to be building
systems that allow you to move at the
agentic speed, the speed of agents.
Something kind of funny happened to me
the other day while I was reading this
blog. Actually, I'll throw the image on
the screen. I had to save it. The
agentic speed is just insane. Your
agents can process information much,
much faster than you can. I was reading
through this blog, you know, took me
maybe, you know, 20 minutes to read
through part one and part two, take
code agent to read the blog alongside
me. It read the whole thing, of course,
in what was it, 5 seconds. And so I just
had like a really funny interaction
where uh you know I was shocked and then
you know I said something and the agent
literally said nothing. It was the first
time I've ever had my agent respond with
nothing. It was just a really
interesting interaction point. And and
this is the agentic speed, right? It's
this multiplied by every single agent
you can spin up. Your agents can read,
they can code, they can engineer at
agentic speed. So you need to build the
system that allows you to tap into that.
And you can see here Stripe is doing
that with their powerful dev boxes that
spin up in just 10 seconds and it
somehow sets up their entire gigantic
repository. Millions of lines of code,
tens and thousands, probably hundreds of
thousands of files. All right. And you
know, props to Stripe. We built out dev
boxes for the needs of human engineers
long before LLM coding agents. As it
turns out, parallelism, predictability,
isolation were very, very good
properties for engineers as well as
agents. Fantastic. We're almost at the
blueprint, which is a really, really big
idea. But let's talk about their agent a
little bit more, right? So, they built
this on their own. They forked Goose.
Let me be clear about that. They forked
Goose and then they customized it to
work within Stripe's LLM infrastructure.
Okay? So, you can imagine they have
custom prompts, custom skills, custom
agents, and then they customize the
agent harness. All right? And again,
this was the big idea we talked about in
last week's video. I'll leave that
linked in the description for you if
you're interested. Customizing your
Aentic harness gives you a massive edge.
You can do it your way. You can build it
to fit the needs of your specific
problem. Okay, once again, I want to
beat this idea over the head.
Specialization is the advantage of every
engineer. Now, you can build specialized
solutions, specialized developer tools
to help you solve your problems at the
agentic speed. Okay, the speed of
agents, not the speed of humans. And so
they focus their use on the needs of
minions rather than human supervised
tools. And this is another big idea we
need to double click into. That's the
use case well filled by third-party
tools such as cursor and claw code.
Okay, which are made readily available
for our engineers. So a couple things
here. They're not limiting, they're not
forcing their engineers to use any
specific tooling. That's a terrible idea
in general. But what they are doing is
building two types of agent coding
tools. Inloop and outloop. I've talked
about this on the channel before. This
is a critical idea to get right if you
want to do more with your agentic
engineering. When you are in loop
agentic coding, your butts in the seat
at your desk and you're prompting back
and forth and back and forth and back
and forth. This is great for highly
specialized work. This is great for when
you're building the system that builds
the system, but this is bad for
everything else. Okay? Uh as a general
rule, I recommend to engineers now that
you spend more than 50% of your time
building the system of agents that build
your application for you. That's inloop,
right? And that's really the value prop
of inloop. You get full control. You can
see everything. It's very manual, but it
is very slow and expensive. You're using
human engineered time. Then there's
outloop agent coding. And this is what
Stripe's minions offer Stripe. Okay,
they are building an Outloop system that
operates at scale in parallel in the dev
box, right? In dedicated agent
sandboxes. This is a big big idea. Why
is that? It's because now instead of
having one engineer with one terminal or
one engineer with three terminals, you
can have one engineer with six agent
sandboxes operating and solving problems
at scale in parallel, right? And six is
just the beginning of this. The whole
idea here is that you should be handing
off more work over time to your Outloop
system. If you're building a great
agentic layer, if you're building a
great system that has agents operating
your services for you, you should slowly
be handing off more work to them. Okay?
And that saves you from the expensive
time that you'll spend. And you know,
never forget your time is your most
important resource. It is constantly
running out. Okay? Let me just be super
clear about that. But your your agentic
systems, you can clone, you can dupe,
you can parallelize these as far as your
system allows you to. All right? And
that's the lever that agentic
engineering unlocks. If you build the
system that builds the system, you get
massive, massive reasoning at scale. you
get access to intelligence that
engineers your way and at some point
better than your way. But uh that's key.
So I just wanted to to really dial into
that. Minions give Stripe engineers
access to outloop agentic coding. Very
very powerful. And so they talk about
specialization a little bit more. And
you know they're really hitting on this
this idea I just mentioned there.
Offtheshelf local coding agents are
usually optimized for workflows where
the engineer is sitting looking over his
shoulder, right? And I just call this
babysitting the agent. Minions are fully
unattended and so their agent harness
can't use humanfacing features. Okay,
they built the minion to be fully
autonomous, right? They're built so that
humans cannot interject. That's not the
point, right? The point is that they
operate on their own. Again, inloop
agent coding, outloop agentic coding.
Cloud code minions. Okay? And just to
emphasize it once again, you know, cloud
code has the ability cursor has the
cursor CLI. And of course, there are
great tools we've covered on the channel
like pi.dev dev or you can
programmatically inject these into your
Outloop systems, right? You can deploy
an agent outside the loop and have them
run on a cron job, have them run via an
API request, so on and so forth. All
right, that is where all agent engineers
must move to get massive leverage. You
can see stripes engineers using minions
to do just that. All right, so uh they
talk about permissions. Uh let's focus
on the big idea here right next to dev
boxes. The next most important thing
here for sure is their blueprint engine.
So let's talk about this thing. So what
is this? So they talk about workflows
versus agents. They talk about loops.
They talk about, you know, series of
steps, which is like the workflow. This
is what a lot of prompts and skills
actually are. They're just steps that
you want to work through. Sometimes you
have an agent that's actually doing some
intelligent reasoning, right? Loop with
tools. But you can do much better than
that. You can push a lot further. And
that's exactly what Stripe has done.
Minions are orchestrated with a
primitive we call blueprints. Blueprints
are workflows designed in code that
direct a minion run. Okay. And then they
go on to say blueprints combine the
determinism of workflows with agents
flexibility in dealing with the unknown.
What is this? Every tactical agent
coding member knows this as an ADW, an
AI developer workflow. This is the past
and the future. This is code plus your
agent. Okay, this is the highest
leverage point of agent coding is when
you put these two together. You have
step-by-step workflows that have
determinism and non-determinism put
together. In essence, a blueprint is
like a collection of Asian skills
interwoven with deterministic code so
that particular subtasks can be handled
most appropriately. Okay, there are some
things like a llinter for instance or
like a git commit or a whole number of
things, right? Running tests, creating
certain structures, creating certain
templates, certain reusable pieces,
certain hard deterministic code
pathways. There are certain pieces that
an agent would perform worse in. Adding
an agent to specific steps actually
makes the whole system worse, more
brittle, and more expensive, frankly.
So, for these steps, why would you throw
an agent at that problem? Right? The
real advantage that Stripe has
completely identified here with
blueprints is the fact that agents plus
code beats agents alone and agents plus
code beats code alone. That's the big
idea here. So, Alistar goes on to break
this concept down here. You have the
agent call here implement the task fix
the CI failures whatever but you also
have the actual nodes run configuration
lenders push changes which are fully
deterministic okay they don't invoke an
LM at all they just run code so imagine
you know some toptobottom process where
you have agent running and then you have
code running and then you have agent
running and then you have code running
right so on and so forth this is what
you want to build right it's this it's
the combination of both the agent and
your code okay because not everything
needs an agent and not Everything needs
code. Okay, very very powerful idea
here. Another advantage of creating
these blueprints of combining code plus
agents is that their blueprint machinery
makes contact engineering with sub
agents easy. Why is that? It's because
they're operating at a specific step.
And so at that step, you might constrain
the tools, you might constrain the
system prompt, right? Or you might
modify the conversation required by the
subtask at hand. Okay? And again, we're
hitting on this idea of specialization.
There are specific steps in your
engineering, in your product, in your
tool that you've uniquely implemented.
Okay? And so when you can break that
down into determinism or in a gentic
process step by step, this allows you to
specialize, right? And so, you know,
once again, what are we doing? We're
back at foundational engineering. If
you're trying to tackle a big problem,
chunk it up into small pieces. every big
problem is just a you know a few small
problems put together and then chunk
those problems into types and then give
it to code or give it to agents. Okay,
that's what their blueprint system is
effectively doing. To me, this is the
highest leverage point. This is what
makes their agentic layer, their agentic
system so powerful. It's the combination
of code and agents inside of a
repeatable format for success. Okay?
Because guess what they can do? They can
now deploy meta aentics. they can
effectively create an agent that builds
their blueprint just in the right way
and then they can validate it, right?
They I wouldn't be surprised if they had
a blueprint for creating blueprints. All
right. Anyway, let's move into context.
So, they use the rule files setup that
you know is much like claude.md or
agents.md due to the size of the
repository they can't have unconditional
job rules. So, they need a specific
solution to do this. They're using a
standardized rule format much like
cursors. All right. So this is a rule
format that looks like this. So you have
your primary directory whatever tool
you're using you know tries to claim
that name and then you have / rules and
then you have some markdown files right
but the interesting part is that you
have a markdown file with some front
matter. All right, front matter is going
to be you know MDC files are like the
most popular file format and for good
reason right so they have these rules
here where you can specify the glob
pattern in which to activate this
context or you know a specific subset of
this context and then they have rule
anatomy you can imply intelligently or
you can apply only when specific files
are being accessed. All right. And so
this gives you more control over the
context that's loaded as you're
accessing different directories
throughout your codebase. Okay. And so
this is the structure that Stripe
Minions use, right? And the big line is
right here. We almost exclusively give
minions context from files that are
scoped to specific subdirectories or
patterns automatically attached as the
agent traverses the file system. And
they're using the, you know, kind of
cursor rules to do that. And so they've
combined it with a format from cloud
code. Once again here you can see that
they're building customized agentic
solutions that best solves the problems
they're facing. Okay and they're
combining the best for the industry. I'm
not saying that you know cursor agents
or claw code agents or how they do
things is wrong. That's not the point.
There are many ways to do things. The
question is what's the best way for you
and how do you get the most leverage out
of what's available? We can see stripe
engineers doing exactly that. Last
important idea to mention here is
Stripes gathering MCPs. Right. So what
are and and how does Stripe put together
the tools? So as we all know tools are
an essential element of the core for
context model prompt tools. Tools is
what created agentic coding, right? It's
the only reason that any of this is
possible because our agents can now use
tools to take actions as we can. So how
does Stripe handle their 500 MCP tools?
Won't this immediately cause a token
explosion? Absolutely right. It totally
would. What they've done here is they've
built a tool shed. They built a
centralized internal MCP server called a
tool shed which makes it easy for Stripe
engineers to make new tools and they're
automatically discoverable in their
agentic systems. Very very powerful
stuff here. Okay. All very agentic
systems are able to use the tool shed. I
want to be super clear about this. We're
talking about meta agentics. This is
something that keeps coming up over and
over. You build prompts that create
prompts. You make agents that build
agents. You have skills that build
skills. You have tools that allow you to
select tools. Okay. The tool shed is a
tool that unlocks tools for their
agents. Okay, so these are called
metaagentics and they're a powerful way
to solve the class of problems, right?
To to solve repeat problems in the space
of agents. And you know, to be clear,
this is not new at all, right? OG
engineers watching, you've heard of like
things like meta programming, right?
Passing functions into functions. This
is not a new phenomenon, but what is new
and what's really important for you and
I to focus on when we're building out
these powerful agentic layers is to
think about when we need to build the
thing that builds the thing, right? So,
Stripe uses a tool shed to create and
connect to over 500 or nearly 500 MCP
tools. Okay? Very, very powerful. And
you can imagine they have all types of
internal and external services that they
want to connect to. And the tool shed
lets them do that. This was completely
net new to me. I had not seen a concept
like this before. I think this is really
cool. A tool shed centralized location
to load specific tools. So, you know,
big shout out to the team for uh for
building something like this. And then
lastly, you know, one of the big ideas
they talk about and that's just super
critical for engineering. Like this is
just great engineering. You just
iterate, right? All this stuff is so
new. All this stuff is moving so
quickly. You and I strip engineers.
Doesn't really matter who you are. It's
not about what you can do anymore. It's
about what you can teach your agents to
do for you. Okay? This is a big idea.
It's one of the central thesis we talk
about in tactical agentic coding in
addition to building agentic layers like
handing off work and thinking about your
agents as tools that you're templating
into and templating your engineering
into. That's the name of the game,
right? Teach your agents how to build
like you would so you can scale them to
the moon. All right, so what else do we
have here? A lot of really great ideas.
I'm curious what you think if you've
operated in code bases with more than
10,000 files. Comment down below what
would you rank Stripe's agentic layer
based on everything we've gone through
here and you know our highle
understanding of their system right they
have multiple CI entry points they have
EC2 agent sandboxes that mirror
developer environments they have their
own custom agent harness they have a
customizable blueprint engine that lets
them combine code and agents together to
outperform either they have rules file
for context engineering they have tool
shed for selecting one of 500 tools or
many of 500 tools tools. They of course
have CI for self validation and they
have GitHub PRs to review the work their
agents have done on their dedicated
agent sandboxes. All right, so rank
this. I'm super curious what you think.
Rank Stripes agentic layer out of 10.
I'm going to go ahead and give them and
and you know again if you've worked on
code bases that are larger than 10,000
files, no offense, guys, but I don't
want to hear a vibe coders opinion on
Stripe's endto-end system. But for mid
to senior level plus engineers, I'd love
to hear what you think. I'm going to
give Stripe an eight out of 10. Okay, so
very very very powerful agent layer. And
let me be super clear here. I have no
ego in this. Let me say it this way. I
cannot solve Stripe's programmable
financial infrastructure problems better
than any one of their engineers on their
team could. They own that problem in
this problem space. So that's not what
I'm saying at all. They are the experts
there for sure. My expertise is in
agentic engineering. It's in building
agentic layers. And so I only have two
I would pitch to them as potential
improvements. The first thing is this.
you know, they they identify this right
away. Why only two rounds of feedback in
their CI for their agents? Okay. And so
they say, you know, speed, completeness,
cost, time, compute, blah blah blah.
These are fair constraints and reasons
to only run two rounds. But I think this
is a mistake, frankly. Think about
yourself as an engineer. Has anyone ever
said to you, "Solve this problem. You
have two attempts."
All right? You just have two shots at
this. Uh, no. No one said that. Right?
It often takes us tens and hundreds of
times to get something right. So, I
think limiting their minions to just two
shots is potentially going to cost them
more developer time and also increase
the gap between the next learning of how
to improve their agentic system by
letting their agents run more, right?
Like, I think the learnings you get from
running five rounds of your agent is
going to be a lot more informative than
running just two. All right, but I could
be totally wrong. Again, they know their
system better than we do. All right, but
that's my first note. And my last note
here is in the language of their
minions. So, you know, they call these
end to-end agents, but you might have
noticed they have a prompt step and they
have a review step. Okay, that's two
steps. End to end is this, right? And
you take out the review, right? It's
prompt to production, P2P. Okay? And
this is something we've talked about
inside of Tactical Agentic Coding. This
is the northstar for all agentic
engineers. This is an idea, a concept
called ZTE, zero touch engineering,
prompt to production. No review, no
human in the loop. I want to be a little
critical about their language here. I
know that this is industry standard and
of course, again, of course, they're
operating on a scale most of us
engineers will never get to, but that's
what I would push Stripe to think about
next. What are the lowlevel simple
tasks? maybe some lower risk tasks,
developer tools stuff, you know, some
non-userfacing stuff and even some
userfacing stuff that they could ship
actually end to end. And the value isn't
in doing it. It's in answering the
question, what would it take for you to
run a prompt and trust that your agentic
system can deliver this to production
without human oversight, right? The
value is in the journey of the question.
So, that's that's another area where I
would just like really try to push the
Stripe engineers to that next next
level. Um, I made a prediction on this
at the end of last year in our 2026 top
2% engineering video. I think in 2026
we're going to see a blog post very
similar to this where an engineer
operating at serious scale, we're
talking tens of millions in revenue. I
predict we're going to see a blog post
where they break down their agentic
layer and talk about how they ship from
prompt to production with ZTE zero touch
engineering. So those are the only two
trying to
Stripe has some of the most cracked
engineers on the planet. This is just a
problem because again, if you operate a
specific domain for years and years, no
one knows how to solve it better than
you do. All right, so those are my two
Engineering team and you know, Alistar
Gray for writing this up. This is a
great post. This really caught my eye
and I thought it would be valuable to
share with you here because it really
emphasizes that point that building a
powerful agentic layer really comes down
to owning all the pieces bottom to top.
Now there is a point in which you want
to start owning your agentic technology,
right? And again, if you're like
creating a brand new net new product,
you probably don't need to do that for a
while. You just don't have the scale for
it out of the box. It's going to work
for you for a while. But then there's
going to be a point where you're going
to need a specific solution, right? A
customized solution to solve a specific
problem. And you want to boil that all
the way down just like your application
is a is a, you know, a detailed edge
case covering solution. Your agent
should reflect that too. That's why we
covered the PI coding agent. There are
many, but this one is mine. And the
whole idea here that I want to, you
know, connect with you on is that
specialization goes all the way up the
chain, all the way into the agent
harness, all the way to your stack of
technology that you operate. So anyway,
big shout out to Stripe Engineers. This
was really fun. I like blogs like this.
You know, frankly, I'm getting a bit
tired of everyone hyperfixating on
models and prompts and skills. Like
let's let's uplevel this and talk about
the systems that have agents inside of
them that contain agents and that
contain code and that contain, you know,
modern engineering technology that puts
it all together to generate real value
for you, your team, your company, and
ultimately your users and customers,
right? Because that's where the value
really is. That's what makes all this
stuff actually matter at all. All right?
If you're still watching, first off, you
know, big thanks to you. I hope these
ideas make sense. You really want to be
thinking about the agentic layer as a
whole, not just your coding tool, not
just the models. Let's let's ease up on
the obsession on these, you know, models
and who's winning and what genera
company is more just let's focus on
solving problems by building agentic
layers with the key pieces. All right?
And Stripe has outlined a lot of them,
right? Like every agentic layer, every
product is going to run into the
problems that each one of these nodes is
a solution to. So let's pay attention to
them, right? Let's think about how these
are pieces to the puzzle of building at
scale with agents. All right? And this
is just one interpretation. Uh no one
has all the answers right now. But it's
about collecting the right context to
solving the problem of agentic
engineering. Right? And and pushing what
you can do further beyond before the
industry before the mainstream catches
up. All right. Everything we do in
engineering represents an asymmetry of
information and then technology and then
results with your product, with your
tool, with your team, so on and so
forth. All right? So, you want to be
pushing forward on this stuff. Don't let
up the gas. Stay focused on valuable
information like this blog and, you
know, me being biased, but like this
channel. I really try to focus in on
concrete signal in the industry, not
hype, not slop. There's going to be a
lot of both of those as we move week
after week. But I want this to be a
place where you, the engineer, can come
to focus and get some serious insight on
how you can continue to win in the age
of agents. If you made it to the end and
you like this content, definitely feel
free to check out tactical agentic
coding. This is my take on how to scale
far beyond AI coding and vibe coding
with advanced agentic engineering so
powerful your codebase runs itself. As
you can imagine, a lot of the ideas
detailed in this blog, detailed in the
architecture of how Stripes built their
agentic coding tool has been detailed in
here. All right, I'll I'll be honest,
I'm not like gloating or anything. I've
been early to this. This is what happens
when you're a first mover, when you bet
big on an emerging technology.
Everything you're going to see over the
next year, I have in tactical Agenta
coding and Agenta Horizon, the second
part of this course detailed here. So,
if you're interested, I'm going to leave
a link to this. You can see all the
ideas are really in stone here and
thousands of engineers, some of your
favorite engineers mind you, are inside
of this course, have taken this course
and have gotten massive value and are
moving ahead of the curve. So, I'm going
to leave this in here, link in the
description for you. Of course, I'm also
going to link the minions post.
Definitely give this a look and I'll bet
that if we search hiring. Yeah, so
Stripe is hiring. If you're an agent
that's interested in this, you can tell
them that Andy Deb Dan sent you if you
want. And again, just big shout out to
the Stripe team. This is really great
stuff. really great engineering in the
age of agents. No matter what, stay
focused and keep building.