[applause]
Thanks everyone for swimming and thanks
Amplify for hosting us and Blue and Pope
for organizing. I want to start with a
confession. I assume that I so I made an
assumption. It's not correct. As soon as
you going to go first set of things for
the much more exciting coach than me. So
what I'm going to do right now is try to
contextualize the the the the content
they discuss in the broader idea of what
he aspired about. And I use the slides
that were meant to introduce some of
this stuff. But what I will do is um
actually try to reflect on like
philosophically why does GSI exist and
why we think ESPI makes sense you know
made sense when we started it in 2022
why we think it makes sense in 2025 and
why AGI or not we think it makes sense
in 2030 and we think like this is
something very deeply fundamental here
and um the two previous talks were
incredibly sort of deep and thorough on
compactation but something that I like
to repeat partly that surprises people
but partly because it helps drive
something ISM is actually not this about
prompt optimization at all. Uh we are in
fact and we have been as Chris uh
discussed leading sort of the space of
natural language learning and prompt
optimization for a few years. Uh but
that's just like one of the things um
that implement the lawyer paradigm which
is declarative self-improvement or
declarative eye programming. So let me
tell you about that. uh all of this work
and everything that you know Chris and
Lasha discussed uh is you know is is as
they said work by a lot of amazing
people many of whom are in the room we
have IDA mother going next as well uh we
have uh a lot of other folks here that
probably recognize uh so let me let me
just jump right in and uh give you a
little bit of context here so the
context of TSI and of this talk is I
think something super remarkable has
happened over the past like you know 3
to 8 years which is we seem to have
figured out how to train incredibly
general and remarkably powerful AI
assistance and that's no small feat but
something that is taking a lot of people
a little bit of time to realize is as
amazing as these models are is actually
something uh of a of a uh of a cheat
that sort of makes them work as as well
as they do which is they are interacting
directly with you. they are virtually
human in the Duke for every single
interaction which means that when they
make mistakes or when they seem to be a
bit consistent or or where like you know
they don't exactly adhere to your
requirements you're sitting right there
sort of in an HCI from the HCI angle you
know ready to correct them or to
slightly steer them here and there and
you know as a human you're incredibly
flexible and versatile anyway so you're
able to sort of like kind of smooth over
a lot of what they eat uh but what
remains still hard and the reason like
we're doing all of this is that we as
the field are still fundamentally
guessing how to engineer reliable AI
software. Uh and the thing about AI
software is that now you have this, you
know, really powerful and sort of like
super unpredictable language model
inside a program. It's not talking to uh
to to one of us. It's talking to Python
to dumb Python variables and like
control flow. And those things are much
less uh versatile um than we are. Uh and
in fact, that's they are this way for a
reason. They're this way because we want
to be able to reason about the programs.
We want to be able to say, "Oh yeah,
it's doing the thing is antisted. It's
trying, you know, it's supposed to
achieve where we we're supposed to be
able to say this module and that module
do not pass information, you know, with
each other because that would be a
privacy concern, right? So there is a
reason that software is as structured as
it is and that means though that
building these types of AI software
systems is really difficult still.
This is as as uh Chris's talk sort of
alluded to not something that
improvements to language models is going
to fall anytime soon. And the reason for
this is um maybe more apparent if we
reflect for a second on how these models
exist. These models are not engineered.
Uh we do not in fact understand uh
exactly how they do what they do. What
happens is we figured out a recipe much
like cooking or maybe uh uh alchemy uh
where basically we if we prepare data of
enough scale and we iterate on it enough
times and cover sort of like all of the
obvious cases uh and you sort of run it
with a whole lot of gradient descent in
various different algorithms and
objectives and shapes, you get models
that sort of when you put them under
audit and you test them for a while,
they seem to be incredibly good and
impressive and we can sort of iterate
from there. But for the same reason that
we get this amazing generalization where
the models extrapolate and interpolate
and pin the points they see. Um for that
exact same reason we do not know
precisely what they will do uh the
farther out you go from these plays and
sort of in this vastly high dimensional
space. And for that reason you get
models that are better and better and
better all the time and yet they seem to
be uh you know susceptible to all kinds
of like weird sensitivities. Sometimes
very weird contingent tricks make a lot
of difference but other times their
capabilities as as high as they go uh
you know the models just remain wildly
inconsistent in other ways.
Why is that a problem? Well, if you're
just chatting with the model uh and the
company start to treat their models as
systems, they can sort of iterate over
these over these uh uh sort of uh uh
out a lot of that behavior. But when
your goal uh is to take a model now and
build a product or build an artifact or
some kind of system, you're always
trying to extract the best possible
trade-offs, the best quality, the best
consistency, the this best uh uh
efficiency out of today's generation of
models. And what that invites in
practice was it invite invites hacks. A
few years ago, those hacks were, you
know, people sort of introducing funny
strings in the prompts. Uh but nowadays
is people sort of um you know
prioritizing which which things they
repeat in the prompts or sort of which
examples they they they select for their
models or how exactly they break their
system into multiple agents or any other
number of sort of ephemeral decisions
that you know the next time there's a
better generation of models all of these
things are going to be
counterproductive.
Now this phenomena is just one example
of what is a much broader idea in AI
which is the idea of the bits. If folks
are not aware of this, this is sort of
an essay uh by Rich Sutton, the pilator
reforce learning who is the current
year's um during award where where he
basically says that a lesson from maybe
the biggest lesson from decades of doing
AI is that we're really bad at
engineering around AI. Whenever we pick
a specific problem and we start to
encode our knowledge into things for our
agents and our systems, what happens is
you do see local improvement. the
engineers and the researchers do
actually see a lot of you know a bunch
of return um that helps them celebrate
on benchmarks or you know tasks that
they're solving. But you give it a few
more years and hardware improves and
algorithms improve and the sort of
search spaces we can explore with uh
gradient descent or with discrete search
improves and sort of like you find that
simpler and more general approaches um
that rely on scale are able to sort of
invalidate or like sort of wash over a
lot of the the handy engineer tricks.
And you might think about this as
something like that's specific to AI or
that's fairly peculiar but I actually
sort of implore people to realize that
this is nothing but Donald K's 1974
premature optimization is the root of
all evil. Uh and it's sort of this idea
that you know when engineers sort of
like misprioritize where to spend their
time and they sort of micro optimize and
micro handineer we end up sort of making
bad trade-offs either in terms of
productivity of the developers or of
maintain identity or portability of the
systems or simply doing things that do
not make sense given the rig of progress
computer science in general and in AI in
particular.
So what is the Aspire about? uh DSpire
to me is not around pro optimization.
Although this is one of our best arms in
making for solving a problem. Uh DSP is
fundamentally about how do we take AI
software and make it an actual field. I
think there's very few people outside
the AI the DSI ecosystem and its many
derivatives that actually think and take
AI software as a serious thing. This is
not something you know some wrapper
around the model. We're actually
thinking that this is a discipline and
an engineering discipline and one where
we really want to be systematic. You can
go back to the original DSP papers and
the question is not how do we get the
best quality out of today's models. The
question is how do we turn this into a
systematic discipline? Uh and the answer
starts from well actually in order for
AI software to be a systematic
discipline the first thing you do is you
actually say what is the AI system and
what you're doing. The AI system is not
about GBD5. It's not about text one or
two when we started. Uh and it was sort
of like the first instantiation of DSP
was a homework assignment in the NLP
class at Stanford this course in April
of 2022. Um so this is before you had
GTD 3.5. You had models that barely knew
how to add up two numbers. uh but the
core of the paradigm is that the core
insight is actually inside each of these
systems is some kind of AI specification
and that AI specification should be
decoupled from all of the machine
learning techniques that we are
ourselves inventing and other people are
inventing but by decoupling the AI from
the machine learning uh you're able to
get people to express their systems much
like how we express things in a in a
programming language and you're able to
get the graduate students the
researchers the other engineers who
built a lot of machine learning
techniques and we can then compose these
seamless kicks. If you have a bar
algorithm, you have Jaffa now, we had
Dro before, we had Dra Qot with random
search before, we had Simba, we have a
lot of these methods, this GRPO in air
force learning, we had earlier assorted
methods for offline air force learning.
These compos seamlessly over your
programs, you get new programs and new
applications, you can sort of like run
them uh with whatever the latest methods
and algorithms are.
All right, I have a piece of snippet uh
uh you know a snippet of code here. Uh
and I don't expect you to actually even
see it, but this it's a bit of C code
that's very messy. And what I normally
like to ask instead of like when I use
this slide is like unless you've seen me
give this slide before or unless you
like are deeply like I don't know a nerd
in that part of uh in that part of
programming, it's a piece of code that's
just doing a bunch of bit shifting and
most people have no idea what this is
doing. Um, so this is kind of a snippet
of code from Quake, uh, like a a late
1990s game where in order to implement
something in the in their inner loops,
which is a fast inverse square root,
they figured out sort of a bunch of
tricks where for the floating point
representation you're working with, uh,
shifting and and adding and doing a
bunch of these operations in a certain
way gives [snorts] you an approximation
of an inverse square root. Um, and I
like I I I would like folks to think
about this. If you open a piece of code
and they don't have one function of
that, they have a lot of functions and
all their functions look like this and
maybe you cannot actually make out what
the name of the of the of the function
is. It's just a whole bunch of this
stuff. Would you say that these people
are engineering those systems? Like
maybe if there's like one part of the
system that is super like core and is
nobody else is doing it well. Maybe you
get an excuse there, especially if it's
well documented. But if the whole system
is built like this, you can bet that's a
team that who whose work is going to
collapse. That's not a team that can
iterate fast. Maybe the code is fast
today, but I don't know if it's correct
and I don't know if they're going to be
able to sort of uh stay in the game. So
the question is what did we do? Because
most of us are not writing code that
looks like this. Uh what we did though
uh is we built higher level languages
that allow people to think at the level
of abstraction closer to the problem
domain. uh and then we gave them as
researchers and as engineers uh much
faster compiles and much faster runtimes
so they do not have to do a lot of this
stuff by hand. Notice that the argument
here is not that's actually the museum
in practice but notice that the argument
here is not if you use higher level
languages and compilers your code would
be faster although that's what we see in
practice due to things like the bit
lesson. uh the argument is you've
already engineered there are important
things you need to be thinking about
please do not do bit shifts unless
you've demonstrated that this is
actually the bottleneck that we should
be investing your time in
so the answer uh to AI programming is
exactly the same let's elevate ourselves
above the level of handineered assembly
and the shifts to the level of
structured programming let's rediscover
the 70s and 80s and 90s of programming
uh but this time with natural language
specification as a first class component
and primitive in our programs. Um so
this is the idea of not handine
engineering one prompt steps with the um
are iteratively evolved evolved with a
specific model in mind because the model
will change um but instead declative
signatures which structure um your
intent and actually allow you to express
ambiguous uh sort of natural language um
uh specifications but sort of localize
it so that as much structure that can be
expressed formally and symbolically in
code is expressed formally and
symbolically in code.
So uh instead of a very long and messy
prompt, we break down the task so that
the task that is supposed to be executed
is clearly specified and any
requirements are clearly isolated from
uh from the other components so that the
inputs to your prompt are not just some
fstrings uh but they're actually
arguments that have types and they have
descriptions that can sort of um stand
on their own feet um and that the
outputs are also types uh that can sort
of be understood uh in independently of
uh and and in conjunction with the other
parts. So signatures is sort of like the
core abstraction of DSP. DSPI has
fundamentally a single abstraction. It's
just signatures and everything else
falls out of off of that. If you
understand what signatures are and how
they localize ambiguity in a larger
program and how they open up the space
after that to composition in a larger
space of sort of like functions that
operate on signatures uh functions that
operate on intent essentially. uh you
can sort of see how signatures allow us
to approach the stage of making AI
engineering actually an engineering
field because now we can think about how
we abstract the details of inference you
know should I do chain of thought should
my model be an agent should it do Monte
Carlo to research I don't I don't know
that's not the decision I'm trying to
make I'm trying to build an application
for I don't know like uh chap PDF or
whatever it is that people do um it
abstracts away the learning so if I want
to try the enforcement learning that
signature doesn't say I I I can't do
that. That signature actually captures
my task. And now the question is how do
I turn that into a model reinforcement
diagram? I want to use something like
Japa genetic approaches for removing the
prompt. Well, great because the
signature captures what the what the
prompt is supposed to do. And now the
prompt can be generated according to the
specification. Um plumbing, you know, is
XML the right way to use your model? Uh
there's this thing called what is it
called? Like tune or something that came
out a few days ago. uh or or maybe it's
YAML or maybe it's CSVs or what I don't
know but that's clearly not part of my
task that's some kind of lower level uh
optimization that should sort of be uh
composable on top of my system.
So so what what do we actually do in
practice? What we do in practice in VSI
is we give you the tools to take your
signatures inside a larger program and
then we do any number of the things that
like described today. uh we allow you to
go over the prompts. We can actually
reinforce the weights. We've always
actually been able to do this ever since
February of 2023. Um and we also can
optimize the pipeline. So I'll just give
you a few highlights of those really
quickly. I will not discuss jetack
because you know I cannot do as as well
as good of a job as as as lack did.
Um I'm also going to skip this one
because um I wanted to tell you that
prompt optimizers um can be composed
sort of with RL and DSP and then the two
are better together. But actually both
Chris and Lia told you about that. So
I'll I'll I'll I'll move faster here.
Although I want to highlight that the
tool that enables this is uh is the
team's arbor library which is sort of
this integration with DSP. It handles
all of the all of the finickiness of
reinforcement learning so that you
basically take your exact same DSP
program. That's why it's declared is
that it composes with different
techniques um and simply run the
enforcemental learning up front. Uh the
one thing I will discuss pretty briefly
is is the following.
So far we've thought about language
models as a bit of a black box, right?
Like this is just this thing that we u
pass this uh this this context to and
that we maybe fine-tune with
reinforcement learning. But today's
language models and for the foreseeable
future that might be the case as well um
are transformers and it's actually an
increasing you know a growing
literature. It shows that transformers
are actually a very limited u type of
object maybe because they're really
highly catalyzable. Uh for example, we
al we're all familiar with the context
drop phenomena and there's actually kind
of um theoretical reasons to to believe
that a lot of that is is going to be
very difficult to remove um from the
models like we can increase their
context length but at some point and and
fairly uh consistently they sort of just
seem to struggle for difficult tasks if
the context is long enough.
But that kind of um causes a problem for
the for the vision that we described a
vision of the declarative modules. You
want to be able to show up to your to
your uh system and actually break it
down in accordance to uh your
engineering sort of design. And your
engineering design might have you in
some cases design modules that want to
accept very long input or that do very
long processing or that need to produce
very long output. And the problem there
is in practice uh at any given model
generation if the task is large enough
maybe quality is best uh you know if it
maybe your quality is going to be best
if you actually decompose or break down
the task into multiple calls. Uh you're
not breaking things down here because
your specification calls for it. You're
breaking things down because your model
is just struggling. So so so what do we
do? And and this is like well for the
longest time we told you like well don't
mess with the weights. Uh we can handle
that. Don't mess with the prompts. We
can handle that. But the answer for this
one was like yeah you you got to do this
one sorry. Um so so we're starting we're
starting to think about that and one
answer is uh evolving the prompt itself
uh like like action describe. Uh but
maybe a slightly more general answer is
what we think could be a new paradigm
for inference scaling in general which
is what if we actually go to the
language man and say hey you're very
good at code generation uh and you know
what kind of code we really like to
write that's very powerful it's language
model prolers. It's essentially DSP
program owners. So what if we come to
the model and we say actually I want to
put you in a in a in a setting where we
can generate code and that code can
actually be language model programs. You
one of your tools can be to code a
language model. Um well if you just do
that the problem is the prompt is still
very long and so like the model still is
is failing at reading that whole prompt.
So you might say well okay maybe maybe
in order to make this happen uh let's
actually take that whole prompt and put
it in a variable. If you put it in a
variable in Python and you tell the
model, hey, there's a variable name.
It's called X and it includes the prompt
and it has the following number of
tokens. Well, now the model is not going
to struggle to uh to sort of process the
task. It just cannot see what's in
there. Uh so maybe what we can do is we
go to the model and we say, hey, do it
in a job or a notebook. You're on a
persistent ripple environment. Uh you
can execute code, see what happens, and
then write more code and see what
happens and you can kind of persist that
uh that state as you go. Um so this is
exactly the paradigm. um sort of
developed by my student at MIT, Alex
Tang,
which is called recursive language logs.
It's incredibly simple. What we do is we
basically draw long prompts into a
Python variable. We put the agent
essentially in the Jopa notebook and we
tell it, hey, please poke around. You
can look at the first, you know, key
tokens. You can look at the last C
tokens. And once you understand the
structure enough, we should store it by
key code. And when you write that code
uh one of the tools you have is you can
actually pass context to a language
model. And what you see in practice is
that the models are very good at
discovering the structure uh inside
these long strings. Uh launching pilot
jobs or sort of like map reduce style
jobs where like they call smaller models
on small pieces and they say hey I'm
trying to poke through this and
understand what's in there to summarize
what's happening and sort of iterate
based on the based on the intermediate
outputs they see in order to de compose
uh very large problems. And the
interesting thing is even before we
bring our big tools like Jaka or GRPO to
this uh to this kind of thing um we're
able to see that the models are
surprisingly good at this. It's one of
the sort of reasons that we say well as
the models get better it can actually be
harder to figure out the best ways to
use them. So what I have here is a plot
that shows on a really difficult task
with 130,000 um context length um that
if you just call GPD5 and you sort of
try to prompt it to do this task, the
original paper as well as our
experiments show that it's only able to
handle around 30% um of the instances.
But if you go to GPD5 mini, a far
smaller model and a far cheaper model,
uh maybe I think 20 times cheaper, I
can't remember the exact number. uh it
is more than twice as good uh if you put
it in the recursive setting and it's
actually still cheaper uh in the
recursive setting than using GP5 with a
single call. It's also better than
calling GPD5 in a React agent.
Um and this this structure although here
it's able to improve sort of the problem
of context. So cases where the context
does fit in the technical context window
uh but the model is not performing very
well. uh it is also the case that we
allows us to scale to far longer
contexts than the actual sort of
advertised um window of the model. So
here to 10 million plus tokens. So let
me wrap up. Um thanks to the
contributions of a lot of the folks in
this room uh and many others the DSP
community is regularly putting out
dozens of new applications every uh
someone actually from the community
started a DSP weekly um uh uh
newsletter. Uh I subscribe maybe you
also want to uh and can kind of track
certain things that that he wants to
highlight every week. Uh I have a number
of these here that just kind of
highlight a bunch of stuff like a
Romanian hospital that builds a uh sort
of an optimized DSPI program for their
doctors to give better uh to better
communicate with the with the with the
tele medicine uh uh patients and then
they actually found very large gains. uh
reports from meta in using prompt
optimization for the llama models. Uh
reports from Amazon AWS and their Nova
optimizer sort of suite. Um uh stuff
from data bricks, the data bricks people
winning uh machine learning competitions
and many other types of things including
you know many others that are not here
that uh you know Lakia highlighted and
others highlighted. Uh but thanks to the
work of this huge community um we're
able to see what you know sort of like
uh I'm thinking I'm laughing because I'm
thinking here sort of like uh the
scaling laws of the models. We're able
to see on a long scale what could sort
of be conceived of as an exponential
growth in the number of monthly
downloads of DSP. Uh maybe that's a
metric somebody cares about. Uh and so
like right now we're at $3 million dose
per month, but you could sort of see um
a lot of the earlier stages sort of like
a few hundreds and few thousands uh for
the first half of 2023. So that's that's
thanks to you guys and to the many other
folks sort of in the in the in the wider
community. So I I just wanted to kind of
like um uh you know contextualize the
prompt um optimization discussion and to
sort of bring back like the essence of
prompts in DSP. the the the the the most
fundamental
root role of proni is that we have this
notion of signatures and signatures is
our attempt at sort of answering the
question of how do we bring English or
other other natural languages inside
structured programs and the answer is
actually you should write in English
what can only or can be best expressed
in English but in a structured way and
when you do that what you actually are
writing are humanf facing props or
developerf facing props are what crumps
wanted to be when they grow up. And the
association uh with prompt optimization
is we can take these beautiful organized
self-documenting
uh human facing prompts and turn them
into whatever ugly mess or whatever uh
highly structured deacon set of
requirements that maybe you did not
think about because maybe they're very
model specific or environmentally
specific or data set specific uh or
composition specific where you have
multiple modules connected together uh
and turn them into that through the uh
search uh and learning methods that
scale that allow you in your system to
counteract uh the the effects of the
bitter lesson or the fact that premature
optimization is maybe the uh square root
I guess uh of all evil. All right,
thanks everyone.
[applause]