That little company known as Anthropic,
of course, Claude Code, their famous
tool behind it has caused quite the
ruckus, okay? We're talking about people
are very very upset, okay? I I I swear I
could still hear Twitter people just
screaming right now, and it's been days.
And if you have no idea what I'm talking
about, honestly, you're living a blessed
life, okay? I want you just to look out
on that farm, and I just want you to
smile because you
you have it peaceful. You have a nice
time. But, the rest of us have to live
with what happens out here in the real
world, okay, punk? You don't know what I
have to see. But, since you're watching
this video, you will now discover
everything, okay? We're going to go over
everything. There's a lot of people
yapping about what's going on with
Anthropic. I'm going to give you,
hopefully, what is the full story, but
more, I'm going to also just I'm going
to make a couple, you know, I might
project a little bit. I might make some
guesses myself at the end, okay? For
those that are in the know, you've
probably seen the image. For those that
aren't, you have not seen this image.
But, effectively, it says, "This
credential is only authorized for the
use with Claude Code and cannot be used
for other API requests." This is the big
image that kind of kicked off this whole
Anthropic hate that's going on right
now. So, what exactly is happening here?
Well, if you don't know, Anthropic does
have plans. You can get a pro plan, a
pro 5X plan, and a pro 20X plan. And if
you're on that plan, you, at least up
until now, could use that token and say
cursor, you could use it inside of
OpenCode, and be able to use your plan
and use your set amount or limited
tokens to be able to do a bunch of code
changes. Well, that all changed this
week. They said, "Hey, guess what?
Absolutely not. Nobody else is doing
that. You can only use the plan in
Claude Code." Now, this came as a big
surprise for everybody, okay? People
were not happy. The GitHub's are just,
as you can see, just filled with just
people trying to find workarounds with
it. Tons of comments, ridiculous amounts
of comments going on in there. People
saying they're canceling. Just a lot of
stuff. A lot of people not happy. So, in
other words, if you pay for a
subscription plan, you cannot use
third-party tools. You must use Claude
Code. If you pay by the API pricing,
which is literally like something like
10 X more expensive, then you can use
things that are non Claude Code. You can
use OpenCode. You can use Cursor. You
can use whatever. But, there's a lot
more to it. I think this Reddit post
right here is, honestly, really
illuminating. They're effectively saying
that everybody's kind of lying about the
situation, okay? People aren't giving
the full truth, or at least they're
giving maybe a partial truth is probably
better. Yeah, I mean, they are saying,
"Hey, yeah, there's misinformation going
on." Well, it's it's more like partial
information. It turns out part of Claude
Code's big plans is they they actually
explicitly state in their TOS, "This is
only use in our products." And so, has
this always been known? Yes, apparently,
this have always been known.
Effectively, what a bunch of these tools
do is that they use your OAuth token,
and they forge requests with specific
headers and body. It's very fragile.
Like, if if you've ever done this
before,
have you ever had to treat like a black
box service, and you have to kind of
guess how it needs to behave, and then
you get it up and running, and then they
make a change, and it just just just
destroys your service until you come
back up with the new change that they
made? It's always very fragile, super
frustrating, but this is how all the
tools work. And this TOS thing, it's
been around since all the way back when
Claude Code released in early 2025. They
have always strongly discouraged using
their APIs this way. They put real
effort into preventing it. So, in other
words, this problem that everybody's
very angry about was actually just
really a ticking time bomb underneath
because Anthropic didn't enforce it.
They allowed it to continue to fester
for a long time, and a bunch of people
switching over. Don't worry. We're about
to like literally
We're about to get the tinfoil out.
We're just We're not that good. I I I
want to make sure you guys really
understand what's happening before I go
off and yap, project. Lastly,
apparently, the person running Claude
Code has came out and said this on
Twitter, which said this, "Yesterday, we
tightened our safeguards against
spoofing with the Claude Code harness
after accounts were banned for
triggering abuse filters from
third-party harnesses using Claude
subscriptions. Third-party harnesses
using Claude subscriptions create
problems for users and are prohibited by
our terms of service. They generate
unusual traffic patterns without any of
the usual telemetry that Claude Code
harnesses provide, making it really hard
for us to help debug when they have
questions about rate limit usage or
account bans, and they don't have any
other avenue for the support." In other
words, it's just that these these
abusive third-party platforms are just
impossible to debug, and any problem is
perceived to be an Anthropic problem,
not the tool's problem. And so, that's
what they're really saying. They're
They're really just saying, "Hey, for
your best interest and for our ability
to debug, the only possible way forward
is for us to make sure that we're
always,
you know, enforcing our TOS, no matter
what." All right, so that's kind of like
the what has happened. All right,
everybody, we are now on the same page.
Now, the real question is why did this
happen, and why now? Like,
OpenCode has been using Anthropic for a
long time. Cursor has. A lot of these
tools, apparently like Cloud something
or another that's some other service, is
also using it. Like, this has been
around for months upon months upon
months. So, why enforce it now?
Especially at the height of Claude Code
glazing. The first thing people kind of
talk about, which, honestly, I think is
is is the weakest and probably the most
incorrect of them all, is the cost,
right? So, remember, there's three
potential plans. There is going to be a
pro plan, and then you have the 5X plan,
and then you have the 20X plan. This
one's approximately $20 a month. This
one's a hundred, I believe. And this one
is 200. And so, often, what you see
people kind of citing is that, "Okay,
people don't really make usage of the
pro plan, except for maybe just a little
bit actually cost more. And then, the of
the 5X, maybe half the people cost more
than the actual thing. And then, for the
20X, the large majority of them end up
costing a lot more." And to what extent
do they cost? I don't know. So, the
general calculus everyone runs on the
math that's like, "Oh, this is why
they're doing it." goes something along
the lines of this, right? The integral
of P over whatever its bounds is, I'm
not going to write its bounds.
Plus, of course, the integral of the 5X
plan, plus the integral of the, what's
it called, of the 20X plan is going to
be like minus the integral Let's just
call whatever this line is, I'm just
going to call it
g of x cuz I have no idea what the hell
it is. Let's just call g of x. This
thing has to be greater than zero. And
that's why they're doing it, right? The
area underneath this curve is bigger
than the area underneath these little
price point step ladder curves, right?
Like, that's what everybody's saying.
Everyone's saying, "Okay, this is the
real cost. That's that." Honestly, I
don't think this is the problem. I mean,
yes, I think money is the problem, but I
don't think this particular thing is the
motivating factor or why we're seeing it
now. So, to kind of put us in the right
direction, I believe that Dax actually
has a really good, like, at least
directionally correct tweet, which is,
"Okay, it's their business at the right
to enforce their terms however they
like." Which is true. Like, they already
said from the beginning they don't want
anyone but Claude Code using their
subscriptions. So, it technically is
their right to be able to do this.
They're not obligated to give anybody
access to their services in any other
way than they have set forth in their
terms of service. And if you've paid for
it, and you are now upset about it, you
don't have to continue to pay. Just stop
paying. So, Dax's projection is that
models aren't sticky enough.
Yes, Opus is good, but so is Jippity 52.
There's things that Jippity 52 can do
better, and there's things that Opus
does better. So, it's not like the
models are actually that sticky. What
they really want is that they want their
entire tooling, their entire stack to be
what you use. When you use Claude, you
use Claude Code. This way, they own
everything. They show that they have
more value, effectively. And I think
this is a big thing, especially when it
comes to OpenCode, because you may not
realize this, but OpenCode has been
growing wildly. They're about to hit 1
million monthly active users on their
open-source project. Which means before
it was just a toy project, but now
that's just shooting up so wild. And the
reason, by the way, it's shooting up so
wild. If you have not used Claude Code,
like, I'm not trying to be mean, Claude,
but I feel like I kind of have to be
mean because
can we all just agree Anthropic is the
number one fear-mongering, "Hey,
software engineering is going to end"
company of them all. And Claude Code,
the product, is just significantly far
behind OpenCode. They've been having
screen flickering. Just like, it is like
a dance club in your twee editor that
is, honestly, just like
I'm going to get epilepsy from even
looking at it. They've had this for
months now. They tweeted about how they
fixed 85%
of it, which is an absurd fix. That's
not a fix. You don't know what the
hell's going on if you can only fix 85%
of it. And second, how did you even come
up with that number? And third, 1 day
later, they had to roll back that change
because other bugs were cropping up.
What it shows to me is that the company
in which is telling you that software
engineering is over can't even run their
own like their own software. They're not
making the changes that are needed to be
competitive, and they're losing out to a
bald man and a vegan from the Ozarks.
It's just diabolical, these two. Yeah,
by the way, you never you Everybody
knows. You don't start a land war in
Asia, and you never go head-to-head when
open source is on the line with a vegan,
okay? Everybody knows that. And by the
way, even with Claude Code, besides for
the flickering, when you type in ultra
think, it's like this rainbow. I had I
had it more than once shift off and have
like the ANSI escape sequences just
being printed in plain old regular text.
I mean, just just egregious bug after
egregious bug. I couldn't expand code
code with control O while in a menu to
accept code changes. So, it's like,
"Okay, accept these code changes, yes or
no?" Well, if you want to see the code,
expand it. Well, you can't leave the
menu. And you're just like, "Oh my gosh,
please, why are you doing this, Claude?
Stop it. Stop it, Claude. Just let me
I'm going to The tool is not good. Okay,
I
first off an impressive software project
and they've done good so far, but it is
not that usable comparatively to open
code. Open code is a beauty. Okay, it's
absolute beauty gives you all the
information you know right up front. You
it's actually well designed. It's by
developers who like to code for
developers who like to code and it's
obvious. So to me when I see this graph
and people talking about this
I don't think so. I don't think that's
it at all. All right people, we're going
to need to do something. I'm going to
need the tin foil hat up here for a
second. Okay.
All right, so this is what I think the
real problem is that Anthropic is
actually having. Okay, I don't think
it's just simply that previous graph.
What I think it is it is partially that
previous graph right here, but I think
there's a lot of lies in that previous
graph. Okay, I think the amount that
they're subsidizing the pro the 5x and
the 20x is much more than this graph
leads you to believe. I think the cost
that they actually have to run
everything is significantly higher.
First off, you got to remember they have
to do these huge amount of training runs
that involve buying and being able to
utilize a whole bunch of hardware and
energy which is just going to be a
gigantic number. Then you have the whole
lifetime problem of the model. How I
mean, who here's out there still using
35 when you got 374 and 45 on the table
right now. You also have Jippity 5
Jippity 51 Jippity 52. You have all
these other options that are better than
35. Yet 35 costed a huge amount of
money. And so the lifetime like
operation of these models especially
right now in such great change is rather
low, but the cost actually run it is
rather high. Plus you have employees
which are extremely expensive. It's
stock grants that some of these higher
paid jobs are just getting paid
outrageous amounts of money. Plus you
also have to have all the infrastructure
and all that crap being set up to be
able to run all the stuff that involves
all the continual running of energy,
replacing GPUs and all that. And then on
top of it, you got things like Nvidia
just dropping brand new AI GPUs called
Rubin that apparently is going to
deliver 10x in reduction in inference
token cost and 4x reduction in number of
GPUs to train MOE models. That means
more models. Okay, when you want more
models, you got to get the new chip and
so this is like this constant rat race
of trying to stay ahead of all the
competitors like chat Jippity, Google,
XAI. I mean
Let's just I mean I know XAI really is
only good at putting people in bikinis
when they don't want to be put in
bikinis, but one day you never know.
Okay, you just never know. So there's a
real substidation like subsidization
problem going on here. These tokens
aren't just sub you know subsidized by
like just the pro users versus the 20x
users. They're not subsidized by like
80%. I would not be surprised to find
out that these things are like 98% being
subsidized right now. Meaning the true
cost of the max plan currently is 50x
more than they're actually saying
because they're still trying to
recuperate all the other things
beforehand. And then to remain
competitive in the future, there is a
continual non-stop march into every
single latest piece of hardware and
everything that they must put in there.
RAM RAM has already been purchased for
all of 2026. So what they have is what
they get and it's astronomically
expensive with Samsung being like,
"Yeah, we're going to just we're going
to just 4x your price. You're going to
pay for it?" And they're like, "Yes,
absolutely. Please yes, sir. How when
would you like me to bend over and how
often?" Right like they're just
absolutely at the whims of everybody.
And so if they can make a stack that's
so competitive and then force people
into this highly subsidized plan that
can only be used on their stack, their
stack becomes the sticking point, right?
Because you can't use the cheap
effective access on unlimited tokens.
And then on top of that, you don't have
access to other models when you don't
want to use them. Right? That's what
that's why open code so dangerous. It
isn't because you can use your max
subscription. It's because when I go,
"Huh, let me try Jippity 2. Oh wow,
Jippity 52 did really good right there.
Maybe I don't want Opus." All of a
sudden, yikes. Anyway, so there you go.
That's my thoughts on the whole thing. I
know maybe I'm a little bit more of a
fringe conspiracy theorist when it comes
to this stuff, but I think that I I I
personally see trouble in the water.
Okay, I think that that's why they're
doing it because why would you torpedo
the single highest amount of developer
gratitude and non-stop Twitter glazing.
It's so over. We're never coming back
software engineering. Opus is right. I
mean I what you've seen videos on saying
Dario was correct that 90% of code is
going to be written in 3 to 6 months. I
mean it's just it's fever pitched. We're
talking about absolute fever pitched
zealotry going out there on Twitter. And
then they just take they literally just
take old yeller OUT AND THEN
BAM. It is just insane. So there you go.
That's it. That's all I have to say.
Hey, I'm going to try something a little
unusual. You want to press like? You
want to make a comment? Tell me where
you think I'm wrong. Tell me where you
think I'm right. I never usually invite
these kind of things cuz honestly I
think it's kind of I think it's kind of
weird to do that. Yeah, I know I did
push for subscribers for a little bit to
get over a million. By the way, thank
you for the million. I appreciate that.
Anyways,
thanks for watching. The name
is I don't trust Dario. I don't know if
you know this, but you may not know
this, but Dario, guess what he said. He
thinks that open source models are in
danger. He's always pushing for
regulation. He does not like open
source. He DMCA'd a bunch of people when
it came to them accidentally leaking
their code and people de-obfuscating it.
He does not like open source and
Anthropic doesn't like open source and
they want to own everything and they
think that AI's too dangerous for
anybody but them to run it and they
ultimately just want control over you
and your life. to leave you helpless and
incapable. That is why 90% of all
software is going to be written 100% of
all software is going to be written
because they don't want anyone to
actually be learning and independent.
They want everybody to suckle from the
teat of Dario and that is that and that
is what I actually believe. I think that
Dario is one of the most dangerous man
on all of the AI landscape and that I
don't think he has your best interest at
heart. A gem.
I know it's not easy to find developers
to work with. Trust me, I hired TJ. So
how do you find quality people to work
with without spending all of your time
on LinkedIn? Well, with G2i you can go
from interview to first PR in as little
as 7 days. G2i has helped people get
placed at Meta and 1Password and they
run React Miami. So they're super
embedded in the JavaScript community. So
if you want to find top talented
software developers, check out g2i.co.