Read the ESLint migration guide
Migration instructions for moving an existing ESLint-based project onto Ultracite's presets.
Ultracite preserves the mature ESLint, Prettier, and Stylelint workflow while packaging the defaults, plugin choices, and editor expectations that usually get copied from repo to repo by hand.
This route is for teams that want stronger defaults and less maintenance while staying inside the most established linting ecosystem.
ESLint keeps winning when your team needs plugin breadth, mature framework integrations, or rule coverage that has grown with the wider JavaScript and TypeScript ecosystem.
For larger organizations or unusual stacks, that compatibility can matter more than shaving every last second off the lint run.
Ultracite improves the ESLint path by packaging the repetitive defaults: plugin selection, formatter alignment, Stylelint wiring, and editor behavior.
You still get the flexibility of the classic stack, but you spend less time rebuilding the same conventions in every repo.
Some teams should absolutely stay on ESLint. If your workflow depends on specialized plugins, highly customized framework rules, or deep type-aware coverage, the migration risk of switching away is rarely worth it.
Ultracite is useful here because it reduces maintenance overhead without forcing that trade.
Ultracite keeps the three-tool model intact. You still get dedicated config for ESLint, Prettier, and Stylelint, but the presets absorb the repetitive setup work that usually sprawls across projects.
import { defineConfig } from "eslint/config";import core from "ultracite/eslint/core";import react from "ultracite/eslint/react";import next from "ultracite/eslint/next";export default defineConfig([ { extends: [ core, react, next ], },]);
ESLint remains the safest choice when your team depends on plugin coverage, type-aware rules, or framework-specific linting behavior that has grown up around the wider JavaScript ecosystem.
Used by millions of developers worldwide. The largest ecosystem of plugins and configurations available.
React, TypeScript, JSX A11y, Import, Promise, Node, Next.js, Unicorn, SonarJS, and more preconfigured.
ESLint handles code quality, Prettier ensures consistent formatting, and Stylelint keeps your CSS clean.
First-class support for React, Next.js, Vue, Svelte, and more with framework-specific rules.
Deep TypeScript integration with type-aware rules that catch bugs static analysis alone can't find.
Hundreds of rules covering accessibility, security, performance, and best practices out of the box.
These are the usual questions from teams that want less config churn but do not want to abandon the mature ESLint ecosystem.
Use the migration guide when you are updating an existing stack and the provider docs when you need a deeper reference on plugins, formatter defaults, and editor setup.
Migration instructions for moving an existing ESLint-based project onto Ultracite's presets.
Provider reference docs for the included plugins, formatter defaults, and VS Code extension setup.
And used by thousands of open source projects.
Here's what some of the most innovative and forward-thinking developers in the React ecosystem have to say about Ultracite.