Welcome everybody to the standup. We
have an extremely special episode of the
standup. Casey has started his own
podcast, a competing podcast in which he
is how could you
uh anyways sorry he and Dmitri are
talking about and having a real
conversation about what is the actual
effects of AI and all that. And you're
probably asking, well, why would they do
that? Well, Dimmitri turns out to be a
legend when it comes to AI. He knows a
lot about it, been working in it for a
very, very long time. and just like
Casey is significantly more competent
than TJ and I combined. And so
therefore, their conversations are
actually useful and good to listen to.
And we thought we'd bring them on and
ask some of our own very own questions.
Kind of a podcast melding.
>> The podcast was actually Dimmitri's
idea. It wasn't even my idea. I It
should have been my idea because I agree
that I should ditch you guys and go with
some like some higher quality co-hosts
here. I mean, that's obviously clear,
but but it wasn't. Uh cuz Dimmitri, you
know, you were actually the one who was
kind of like, I want to talk about AI
because I'm just basically you weren't
happy. You were like, I I don't like
that. I don't like what's being said. It
feels like
>> Did you go on Twitter by accident? Is
that what happened? You went on Twitter.
>> But wait a second, we need a podcast
immediately.
>> Let me add a little bit to what Casey
said there.
>> So, actually, I did not set out to uh to
have a podcast. uh I set out so I I get
so I've been working this a long time
like 20 plus years uh I have lots of
friends who are not programmers or any
kind of like you know lawyers,
accountants, doctors whatever and
they're frequently asking me you know
first of all can I use this in my job
and other things like how is this going
to affect like I have kids in college
should I stop sending them to college
right you know all of those kinds of
questions so uh at some point I thought
I should just try to put this stuff
together somehow and first I started
writing stuff but that felt awkward then
I thought maybe I'll record something,
but I'm not really a recording
personality. Uh, and then Casey and I
have been talking about AI on and off
for uh for years. And my suggestion was,
what if we record like one session? Uh,
and I had a list of things that we could
talk about. And Casey said, well,
there's so many things here that we
could just turn this into a podcast. So,
that's how we ended up uh ended up here.
Uh, but let me add one one more thing to
that, which is uh so you know, I know
that there are a lot of people out there
who are, you know, I see Casec
personalities. I am that kind of
personality as well. So part of uh part
of what I want to do here is to um
facilitate having more Casey out there
uh on stuff where I can be the wingman,
right? Uh that Casey understand. So one
of the things that I appreciate about
appreciate about him quite a bit is that
um he wants to know what he's talking
about before he says something which you
know puts him in the top top 20% of
podcasters at least.
At least
>> at least
>> at least top 50% of this podcast.
>> Wait a second.
>> Hey, is that HTTP? Get that out of here.
That's not how we order coffee. We order
coffee via ssh terminal.shop. Yeah, you
want a real experience. You want real
coffee. You want awesome subscriptions
so you never have to remember again. Oh,
you want exclusive blends with exclusive
coffee and exclusive content? Then check
out CRON. You don't know what SSH is?
>> Well, maybe the coffee is not for you.
terminal coffee
in hand.
What I hope comes uh comes out of this
uh in total is that uh we get kind of uh
Casey culture aligned commentary on uh
on AI and I mean Casey can I don't want
to put words in his mouth but uh like we
see software in a very similar way,
right? I'm similarly skeptical about the
quality of anything coming out of big
tech these days about like questionable
ethical business practices and so on.
So, uh on on general software, not AI
software, Casey and I see eye on on most
things. Uh and so what I'm hoping is
that I can be the the wingman and uh
like give a platform for more Casey
culture commentary specifically on this
crazy AI thing that's taking over
everyone's life, including my own,
right? As I you know in our inaugural
episode I mentioned that uh my life used
to be much more quiet and nobody
believed AI would work and we were just
quietly doing fun stuff and uh and uh in
a way things were better. I mean it's
good that uh that things are working now
or sort of working. Uh and the sort of
working actually is a big part of uh of
what I care about uh trying to make it
better than sort of work. Um so I don't
know. I've gone on long enough. Maybe
Casey you should uh put a bow on it.
>> I think you're I think you're being way
too generous to me. Yeah, I'm I'm the
wingman on our podcast because I don't
really like I just don't work with AI
stuff. So to me it was just like a good
opportunity to like have somebody on who
like I trusted to give solid perspective
on AI because like it's really hard to
you know the only real way I thought
otherwise that I would be able to give
any commentary is I'd have to go spend a
ton of time with it, right? And I just
didn't really want to do that. So so
it's been great. Uh and I' I've really
enjoyed it. Obviously, Demetri and I
have recorded a couple things that, you
know, we haven't posted yet. So, but I
Yeah, it's it's been really great having
you on. So, and I I should kick it back
to to Prime and Te. So, like we don't
want to just talk about our podcast
here. So, like you guys had some AI
questions you wanted to talk about. Uh
or I don't know,
>> take take it wherever you guys want to
take it. We are here. We are here at
your disposal.
>> I do want to start with some things
which is Demetri, can you please uh we
didn't give you really like an actual
qualifying intro other than you're
legendary. Yeah, I was just going to say
I I appreciate the kind words like I I
consider myself relatively competent,
but I mean there are like big names in
the industry who are uh either friends
or friends of friends and it's uh useful
for me to keep uh keep myself calibrated
relative uh you know uh relative to
people of uh much more at least public
uh uh public renowned. Um so yeah I I
don't know I guess uh in terms of
introduction we uh I've been doing um
broadly AI related uh research for 20
plus years. I shipped uh shipped to many
people my very first custom design AI in
2025 uh at Google. It was one of their
first
>> uh 25
>> uh sorry 20 2005.
>> Yeah I was going to say like that's like
20 years old.
>> That's like banana nano banana if you're
shipping that one. Okay. Okay.
Yeah, exactly.
>> Uh so anyway, um I've been doing this
for a long time and seen uh lots of the
ups and downs in the business and also I
I study the history of the business as
well. So I know about um you know the
ups and downs for like the preceding 50
years um like going back to you know
going back to even the the 60s. Uh and
so um one of the things that really
interests me is how this is going to
affect other people um like people that
I work with for example who are now I
mean uh in the first episode we just
talked about the impact on junior
engineers and separately
>> probably should talk about the impact on
senior engineers right because there's
they face a different problem which is
if you're like let's say you're whatever
uh 45 years old now uh you've been doing
this a long time you have a good stable
career making good money uh and now
you're wondering ing what happens if
they like crack the nut and in 5 years
I'm useless, right? And I know I know
people who are wondering this myself.
>> Mhm.
>> Um and that's an especially bad time to
be useless, right? If you're like late
midcareer, what do I do if I'm 50 years
old and I don't know like what do I do
next? Right? uh and there there it's not
anything like the the problems that the
junior engineers face where it's I mean
again big problem for the junior
engineers but they have their whole
lives ahead of them and they can't they
have time to try to do something else uh
but if you're 50 years old and uh don't
have you know 15 years of uh building up
a new career ahead of you what do you do
uh so that's that's something that I see
people worrying about a lot as well um
yeah I don't I guess maybe let me not
talk talk too much about myself.
>> You can't talk too much. We're used to
hanging out with Casey. All right, it's
fine. You know,
>> we like it when people talk. That's why
we bring smart guests on.
>> Uh yeah. So I guess another thing I I
will add and this this connects back to
kind of having a Casey style perspective
on the industry is that
>> um I've seen a lot of how the sausage
get made uh both in terms of like the
the technical side but also uh also the
business side and this is something that
uh we we talk about in later episodes
about uh how how much can you take
certain claims at face value and how to
evaluate which claims can be taken at at
face value and so on. Um so what I'm uh
in the same way that um like you can't
take whatever Microsoft claims at face
value about improvements in Windows
performance. Um right you can same
>> this is going to be the best Windows yet
that's going to be perfect and flawless
will be safe.
>> It was going to be the last Windows ever
as well.
>> Well I did I they are still working on
making it the last Windows ever.
>> That's a good point.
the Linux desktop is what TJ's trying to
say.
>> They they put that into the AI and it
gave them a plan back of how to make it
the last Windows ever. They're executing
on that flawlessly.
>> Yeah. They're like, "We got this thing
called Windows 11 and it will ensure
that Windows 10 is the very last version
of Windows."
>> All right. And if that doesn't work, we
have Windows 12.
>> Yeah.
I um so I I've just got a few topics
that I thought would be fun. We can just
see where uh like they lead us and what
happens. I think there's similarly to on
on the episode at least that I've
listened to. Um you start on a topic and
there's like 95 different branches that
we can go off of. So I I'm not if we
don't get to all of them, it's whatever.
I I think it uh it'll be fun. But um one
of the things I'm interested in and like
it's just hard to get anybody's like
unbiased
everyone's got a biased whatever just
like a more rational take on like this
current state of token cost and what
that's looking like going forward. I
don't know if you have any thoughts
Dimmitri about like is it going to be
that Sam Alman was right and we're going
to get 10x cheaper every year or
whatever. I don't know. That's what
Twitch chat always tells.
>> That's what Sam Sam has it on the
record. He said it twice now. He said it
he said it twice and made projections
into the future saying it's 100x
cheaper. GP2 5.2 high will be uh 100x
cheaper in uh two years.
>> Okay.
>> Uh so a lot of that is infrastructure
development and algorithm development
that is trade secrets that
>> like I can't evaluate uh and even like
even an open AI insider it would be
illegal for them to to evaluate in
public right. Um I I don't know what
they're cooking up there. I mean they
have an extremely talented team. Uh 100x
cheaper seems hard to believe, but
uh I guess wait and see. So I mean one
of the thing one of the problems with
these um with evaluating claims in this
business is that um the timing matters
as much as the content of the claim. So
like uh like Musk is a good example just
to take Sam out of this for a moment
>> where uh MK was Musk was saying you know
we'll have uh I mean we'll have uh you
know reusable rockets in I think he
first made the claim in 2005 or
something like that and it took many
years before that actually worked later
you know when was the first promise of
uh Tesla full self-driving that was like
2016 that he was saying
>> and then every six months after that
>> right um so So, I would um I found it
useful to try to separate out the
content of the claim from the timing of
the claim.
>> So, I I would not be surprised um I
would not be surprised if eventually we
can get uh 100x cheaper token cost.
Whether or not they can do it now, I
that's beyond my knowledge because
that's that's uh partly that's
infrastructure, partly that's uh like
custom hardware, partly that's can you
get cheaper electricity, part like there
so many things that go into the into the
business that it's hard uh hard for me
to to claim one way or another. Uh what
I can tell you is that it has been as
I'm sure you've seen uh it has been a um
land rush mentality, right? So,
everyone's building as quickly as they
can, whatever they can. Put it out. Does
it work? Does it barely work? Okay, move
on to the next thing.
>> Um, and uh some of that is
>> uh some of that is maybe um
recklessness, but some of that is just
market forces, right? Because the um
right now there are multiple really big
players and probably there won't be as
many big players in 10 years. And so
they like given how much money they've
all put into this already, they really
don't want to be the ones caught out,
right? And so the like the the arms race
is uh rational from a business
perspective whether or not it's it's
producing um you know completely
rational engineering artifacts. So uh
all of that is to say uh I'm sure that
there is very substantial um opportunity
for uh for improving efficiency in the
current stock and I don't know if they
so my biggest question would be um is
the is the internal stock stable enough
that you can optimize it now right
because like say you spend a year
optimizing it to get the token cost down
and then there's
>> whatever the next archite architectural
innovation is does that invalidate your
optimization or not. So I I don't know,
right? Um and so you you will hear me
say I don't know perhaps more than most
uh people talking about AI just because
it's uh there's a lot that's unknown
even to people who are deep like uh deep
inside these companies about what's
what's going to happen in like two or
three years, right? Um
>> yeah, I I would add one thing to that
that you know um it's not not adding
something as in information, adding
something as in sort of like a thing to
think about and that is that uh it's
worth noting that I if the costs were
really going to get that low that fast,
I think I would have expected Google's
costs to be very low already. And I know
it's a weird thing to say, but
>> if you assume that there's any hardware
component, like if you think that that
all 100x is going to come from software,
then that seems okay, maybe that could
happen. But if we're counting on a
substantial portion of that 100x coming
from infrastructure builds, it feels to
me like Google has kind of been building
AI centric like stuff for quite some
time and has gotten their thing that
like their TPUs are very much just like
we built machines whose only purpose is
to do this job as opposed to like say
for example Nvidia who's not doing that
like the Nvidia cards are kind of like
still in a weird like hybrid state where
only the
only the very latest Nvidas could be
said to be focusing on AI really and
even those are still a little bit hybrid
feeling to me. So I could imagine if
someone said, well, you know, if all we
had was Nvidia to look at, maybe you
could believe that like, you know,
there's a very long lead time on
hardware. So, you know, we don't know
what they, you know, when they shifted
probably four or five years ago to going
like, "Oh my god, AI is going to be the
biggest thing. We need to completely
redesign everything to just focus on
that." That stuff will only be, you
know, we'll only be seeing the end of
that pipeline, you know, now or
something like that, right? So, I could
see that, but I feel like Google's kind
of I mean, am I wrong about this speech?
I feel like Google's been doing this for
a long time. If there was a huge if
there was huge gains to be had by doing
just AI hardware, I would have thought
they'd have them already. Is that am I
way off?
>> I'm not sure they don't. Right. So, the
first the first time I heard about
>> uh TPU
uh I think the first time I heard that
they were starting to work on it was
like 2014 or something like So, that's
just when I heard about it, right? like
>> I am not a Google insider so I'm sure
like uh knowing how Google works I'm
sure that they were talking about that
like 3 years before I heard about it in
public right but when I heard when I
first heard about TPU development was
somewhere around 2014
>> so I guess I I have not been studying
the uh like whatever internal economics
reports uh Google puts out it's possible
that they are already substantially
cheaper than um
>> I would think
>> on on operating cost substantially
cheaper than open I don't So uh and but
I mean this is a something that's a
common uh folk belief in the industry
which is um like Google is sort of the
quiet monster in the business because
like they
if you compare them for a moment to say
open AI uh they have had they have been
infrastructure leaders forever. They
have been AI leaders forever. Uh unlike
open AI they have uh they have u I'm
trying not to say the word surveillance
but I'm just going to say surveillance.
on the entire internet, right? So, they
have just a constant flow of
>> uh potentially trainable information and
you know, XAI has um uh has that flow
that uh that is their own proprietary
flow of data.
>> Um so, uh many people have have this
feeling of Google was kind of slowed on
the on the product side. I emphasize on
the product side uh with uh like chat uh
chat LLM products. Uh but there is many
people have this feeling of um possibly
Google is just going to quiet quietly
leverage all those advantages that uh
nobody else has. Uh and like XAI is the
only one that's sort of sort of close in
um in having that capability. It's
interesting to note that uh as far as
I've seen in public XAI,
they're merging with uh Starlink.
They're talking about sorry with uh
>> SpaceX. Yeah,
>> SpaceX. Uh and they're talking now about
orbital data centers. And something that
I I thought was interesting there um was
uh that the designs that they've talked
about are GPU based, not TPU based. And
I don't know if that's because
>> they don't think they can build it up as
well as Google did or they don't think
they can license it. So I don't I don't
know, right? But the thing I will point
out the the designs I've seen uh I mean
I guess I haven't looked looked in like
3 months but the designs I've seen were
uh estimates based on uh you know Nvidia
know something because this is this is
the kind of thing that they do, right?
Like the big um
the biggest competence advantage that I
would put in the kind of Musk category
of companies is uh the relentless
execution on on uh building and
optimizing and streamlining physical
stuff. That's something that they've
been doing really well for a very long
time. So if um anyway that caught my eye
that the designs I saw were based on
GPUs and not TPUs.
>> Um and I I do know that they're working
on their own um uh their own AI chips. I
don't I don't know that much about how
far they are there, but it's interesting
that that when they were talking about
the orbital data center designs, they
were talking about u get conventional
GPUs as we understand them.
>> I got to say orbital data center is like
the coolest sounding thing to build.
>> Yes. Like I it seems really not
practical. I get like I get there
saying, "Oh, we're going to have robots
do it and it'll be outer space and it's
really cool." Um but I got I mean you I
feel like everyone's got to admit
orbital data center is probably the
coolest thing to say you could work at
in software development. So
>> I think like yeah based on what I've
seen for orbital data centers it sounds
like it's it is either much cooler or
much less cool than what you're thinking
about depending depending on your
perspective. Right? So,
excuse me.
If you're imagining like a giant
building in space, like
>> like it it sounds like uh the kind of
more leading designs that are like more
plausible. They're more like Starlink.
They're more like satellite clusters
where you just have lots of little
things that talk to each other over
light links basically for high-speed
communication. Um,
>> well, and giant giant radiators, right?
>> And huge.
>> Yep.
>> It's almost all radiator. And then
there's a little like nub in the center
contains that contains the GPUs, right?
>> Yeah.
>> That doesn't sound as cool as what I had
in my head of a big skyscraper in outer
space where we've got racks of GPUs and
you can walk around in it and it's like
really cool.
>> Um, but that's okay because when you
tell your parents that you work at an
orbital data center, they won't know. So
it's fine.
>> That's what they imagine is that
>> Yeah. Yeah. I say it's exactly like Star
Wars mom and dad. Trust me. Trust me.
>> Unfortunately, like heat is just very
>> I guess the as the the kids say say
problematic in space. Like you don't
have anywhere it
>> like it's very hard to get rid of heat
in space. So this is a problem. As
Demetri was saying, you you end up
having to have a lot of surface area per
chip, like per per heat generating
Nvidia, like GB200 or whatever. I mean,
it won't be a GB200 by the time they get
these things launched, but the uh you
know,
>> that's the thing I didn't I didn't get.
I don't
>> What is the advantage then? Because in
in like I get that it feels like if you
talk to like a regular person about
putting it in outer space, they're like,
"Well, it's cold in outer space, so
that's going to be really good for
GPUs." But it's the opposite, I think.
Right. I mean, I So, I don't get
>> It's not that it's not cold in outer
space. Cold is the lack of available,
you know, like not having energy.
There's just there's no density, so you
have nothing you can
>> Yeah. I meant like more like they said
it cooling would be super easy. I feel
like that's like the normie thing if you
say put something out cuz like it'll be
cold. Sick. It's like a huge
refrigerator, bro. But that's not how
heat works. Like so I get that part. So
then what is the advantage? Why this is
we also don't have to go way down this
route, but I have been wondering this
myself. So what like why do they want to
put it in outer space?
>> Incredible investment TJ. Like the
amount of investments that are coming in
will be
>> the TAM the TAM for outer space is big.
Think about how many data centers we can
put in outer space. Well, it's so it's
free power and difficult but free
cooling, right? So, if you if you can
make the physics work and I don't I
don't know, right? Like they have really
really good like thermal people at you
can imagine they have very good thermal
people at uh
>> uh at SpaceX. So, uh I I assume that
they have done simulations that that
suggest to them that this can be made
viable. Um but yeah, so it's free power
and also like more free power than you
would get for the same panel on Earth
because there's no right
>> atmosphere eating up your atmosphere or
weather for that matter.
>> Yeah. No clouds,
>> right? So free power and uh tricky but
free cooling. Um as
>> so it's like when you build a really
complicated thing, but then it's passive
in a video game. I understand. This is
this mechanic makes sense to me. And one
thing I would add uh this so this is
entirely business strategy speculation.
Um so whatever like take like poor big
>> it's financial advice. Got it.
>> Exactly. Right.
>> Investing right now. If it works, if it
works and you are
uh Musk's AI team and you just get to
launch your AI into space and everyone
everyone else is like fighting local
governments and can I build a hydro
plant here? Oh, how much do I have to
pay you to? Right. And you'll just be
like, we're going to space, right? Like
you losers can hang out here. We're
going to space. And by the way, if you
want to go to space, you have to come
through me, right?
>> Yeah. Yeah.
>> Yeah. He pretty much owns the the
passage to space. So it's
>> it's pretty
>> they can't ask Katy Perry. She's the
nautace.
>> Well and also like it's pretty trivial
for like when you look at the
projections for these sorts of things.
It's all about launch cost. Like whether
or not it makes sense to put a data
center in space, a quote unquote data
center in space. It's like here is the
launch cost. like at this launch cost we
think we could do it because that and
that's based on like the failure rate of
the thing how you know long it's
expected to be able to be up there you
know all those sorts of of things
>> and so at the end of the day if you know
if you look at somewhere like SpaceX and
they're like well for us we could get
our launch cost down to $50 a kilogram
or whatever it you know the magic number
is
>> we just charge everyone else $75 a
kilogram and then it's it's not worth it
for them to put it in space or theirs
will always be worse than ours, right?
It's a very good position to be in and a
and a strangely profitable bet for
SpaceX if it turns out that these are
actually useful in the future. So,
>> so I think we should probably attempt to
get a little bit more on uh on a more
practical approach to AI. I do think
orbital data centers does sound amazing.
>> You don't want the title of this video
to be orbital data centers. THERE'S
GOING TO BE AI in space. That's going to
How many clicks is that going to
generate? Come on, man. space. Go ahead.
>> That's my That's my rock opera I'm
writing. That's crazy. How did you know?
Case
>> cuz I am also writing a rock opera
called Ali in Space as it turns out.
>> Oh, we could collab.
>> Yep.
>> That's not going to happen. Uh he's just
he's just going to take it all from you.
Okay. So, I guess we should
we should probably uh talk. I think the
number I get a lot of concerns uh from
people and one of the most frequent
questions I've been getting lately is is
my future just reviewing code.
>> Yeah. So, quite possible. Um let me let
me try to be measured in what I like how
likely I think that is. Um so look one
one thing that I've been um I I have
discovered in my own work and that I've
been saying publicly for a while now is
uh so I I try to work on um like
repeatable and reproducible AI results.
So like the bucket term I use for that
is has been reliable AI but it turns out
that there's a company called reliable
AI and so anyway so
uh so anyway uh the thing that I I I I
think you can do right now like
completely handsoff and not have to
review anything right so this is what I
mean by reliable right that like if I
ask you th to whatever go implement uh
like download this thing from this HTTP
endpoint and like save it into the
database and give me a dashboard that
whatever calculates the averages of some
things, right?
>> I can just tell you that and expect a
result and it will work and I don't have
to talk to you about it again, right? So
that's what I mean uh in this completely
hands-off style. Uh right now I think
the limit of that is somewhere around a
couple thousand lines of like relatively
standard junior level code. Uh and I
want to emphasize because some people
some people have uh justifiably pushed
back on this a bit. I'm not saying you
can't do more by having oversight and
doing multiple tries and having
algorithmic test suites. I'm not saying
you can't do more right now. What I'm
talking about is what's the limit of
what you can do hands-off and you can
mostly just trust that it happens. Mhm.
>> Um
I think I think at a at a minimum we are
going to go through a
um reviewheavy phase because the the
businesses are as as I'm sure you know
um the businesses are trying to shove
this into everyone's workflow whether
they like it or not. Right. And I I get
lots of people lots of people even in
the AI business who tell me like I hate
how much they're trying to push us to
use these things, right? I just
>> I just want to do my job. Uh but like
they're monitoring my token usage,
right? I mean this this
>> anecdotally too not just like literally
like I have friends who are like we have
to use this tool
>> part of my KPI is like we use we have to
use clawed code
>> only. That's and my manager has a
dashboard with my token count for the
month and it is a thing we talk about
and review. Not even like oh you can use
whatever one you want. We just want to
see you guys experimenting. They're like
you have to use cloud code. You have to
do this. Yeah, it's crazy.
>> Yeah. Think about Amazon Curo. That's a
lot of people are talking about that
right now with the whole Amazon
accidentally having several SE ones.
>> Yeah. They're like, you have to use our
stuff to take ourselves down. If
anyone's going to bring it down, it's
going to be me. Okay. That's
>> We want to make sure we our but we want
to make sure our site goes down and our
AI looks bad at the same time. We don't
want like someone else's AI to look bad.
>> No, that would be mean. Okay. If it's
going to if it's going to go down
because of AI, it's our AI. They're
putting the eye in AI. Okay.
>> There you go. Very good. Yes.
>> So yeah, Prime on on that point I think
it's very likely that we will go through
a u reviewheavy phase. Uh I think I
think that at some point um
uh like the workers will object to this
enough that we're going to have to find
something something more acceptable,
right? because I don't know if you have
tried it, but if you're just like
reviewing stuff like you know claw dumps
another thing on you every you know five
minutes you're like okay now I have to
review this and approve and merge
whatever or or I mean you can just yolo
right and but but we've seen what
happens if you just yolo um so uh I do
think we will at a minimum go through a
like reviewing mostly reviewing phase
and I think people are not going to like
it
that's my expectation I don't So I don't
know how uh I don't see what the
alternative is right now because like e
so the either
>> the two possibilities I see right now
are uh like they're going to be
monitoring your token count and so you
need to be consuming and generating
tokens and then that has to go that has
to get uh linked which uh you know in
some places they actually link the like
the tokens to PRs right
>> uh and so
>> you need to be generating lots of PRs
you need to be consuming lots of tokens
How can you do that other than
just generating many many PRs with AI
and reviewing and like hoping that
you're not taking down, you know, taking
down fraud by by missing something in
your review, right? So, I I don't know
how we get out of that other than uh at
some point the business side says,
"Okay, like we can cool it, right? we're
going to um we're going to stop
monitoring your token use, which I mean
I I personally I feel like that's not
that different from a desktop monitor or
like a keyboard monitor or something. It
feels very invasive to me. Like, hey,
you know, I understand you're asking me
>> I think it's fair to ask me, hey, can
you use this tool? Can you try to do
better work? I think that that's fair,
right? Like I'm ultimately you're like
you're being paid to do something for
the business. I think it's fair for them
to ask, hey, we'd we'd like to be using
these tools and we think you can do
whatever like 20% more work if you can
if you use this. I think that's fair. I
think
>> the micro micro tracking feels worse
than the past. And um
>> it's really easy to game too, right? You
just like sequentially look at every
single file and it's just going to be
like dang dang dang like
crushing the tokens. I know people who
are like at big tech who are working on
stuff and they have to do what exactly
what you're saying and they're saying I
I like I do I do this just to keep up
appearances for my AI use and you know
by the end like my output changes maybe
10%. Right.
I do like how it's literally just
setting money on fire and they're like
this makes me look fast because so that
actually before we got distracted on the
orbital data centers which I'll repeat
coolest name ever
>> super cool command
>> I uh was I was interested in you know
some of your thoughts about sort of the
tokconomics side of things because right
now it feels like people are burning a
bunch of money trying stuff out and
exploring and willing to just be like oh
yeah you just spent $5,000 this month.
Whereas before, like you couldn't get
like a $45 like online course approved
and they're like, "Oh, but yeah, yeah,
$5,000 of tokens for nothing. Yes, we're
totally down for that. Do that every
month." because I I was interested to if
you know
uh like if we're going to see a big you
know or your thoughts on if we're going
to see a big push on like generating
less or like more focus on like we're
going to use more tools to check what's
being gener you know because at some
point you know Claude Claude just
released their thing about code review
and they're like yeah usually it's like
15 or 25 bucks a review
>> and you're like well that adds up kind
of fast especially at the rate people
are saying I'm shipping 10,000 lines of
code today or I made a 30 300,000 line
Ruby on Rails application for my blog.
That's Gary Tan by the way Casey in case
you didn't see that tweet.
>> Okay. Um, hey, he's boiling a lake and
then he's going to boil the ocean. All
right. That's what he told us.
>> Yep.
>> I side note, I cannot tell if he's the
most genius rage baiter of all time, but
we can circle back to that on a
different episode.
>> Yeah.
>> Um,
>> yeah. So, because I'm I'm interested in
in sort of that angle because I do find
like some tasks I can get done like a
lot faster with letting agents work on
it or like agents spin on something like
forever. It has a really clear outcome.
There's some stuff I already have a
bunch of patterns in my codebase spin.
But I'm like, is is everyone just going
to be chill forever with me spending
$500 of tokens overnight on this? That
doesn't seem like what a business would
like. I don't think we're going to get
$500 of value back from this feature.
So, I don't know if you have any
thoughts like in that vertical or
>> um Yeah.
>> So, this is speculation.
>> Yeah. Speculation. Uh a lot of this is
>> um like principal agent problems for the
business. It's like
>> the So there are for sure uh like CEOs
and like one step down from CEOs who one
way or another um their uh their
personal benefit is tied to claiming
that they did a lot with AI.
>> Yes, it's true.
>> Yeah.
>> Um and as you know uh like in any big
organization you never just evaluate
something for whether it's good or not.
It has to be evaluated through some KPI,
right? Uh, so
>> yes,
>> there are people I'm sure like I haven't
seen this personally, but I'm sure that
something close to this exists that um
there is someone with many millions of
dollars worth of bonuses tied up to uh
can I get our token usage to double this
year and can I get our PRs to increase
by 20% as attributed to that token
increase? Right. Right. Like extremely
bureaucratic thinking about using this
new technology. Right. So I'm sure that
there are many people like that. Um, and
so, uh, those to those people, they're
not they're not spending their own
money, right? They're spending the
company's money. They're tell they're
telling you to spend the company's money
to do something that makes the metric go
up that gets them a bonus, right?
>> Yeah.
>> Um, so I don't know how long that's
going to last, but there's certainly
right now
>> um, a very large premium at multiple
levels of the kind of the business stack
where people are like, you know, why why
isn't your token usage double, right?
And
>> yes,
>> some people some people that sounds like
a joke. I have friends who literally
they say my boss came and asked me why
hasn't my token use usage doubled right
but you only used $300 of cloud last uh
last month
>> honey you barely touched your cloud last
month what's going on
>> is something wrong sweetheart
>> okay so I do actually want to follow up
on that because this is the you know
this was one of the big things that has
been going around is this Amazon hero
thing taking down everything and now
they're saying hey we're going to make
it so that juniors and mid-level people
who use generative AI must have a senior
sign off on this.
>> Can I do a quick question on that as
well, Prime? Which is, was there a
policy before seniors didn't have to
review junior's code just in general?
>> I assume I assume I assume it's like a
lot of companies, which is that a junior
could have a mid-level person review the
code and say, "Hey, this is not really
good." Like, not every change needs to
have, you know, the same cuz you you
effectively will exhaust and lose your
senior population if they have to review
every single PR. And so, kind of
>> that makes sense. So excluding the
personnel problem that will likely
develop from this with Amazon, is this
like the first sign of people realizing
that token measurement isn't necessarily
the best metric? Because I assume that's
what's hurting Amazon is that they
really push super hard as token metric
is the the greatest thing that has ever
existed and you must only push on this
one thing and now they're feeling some
of the effects of maybe moving too fast.
Is there a world that's going to exist
where people are going, okay, instead of
trying to double metrics, maybe we
should double some other thing. Say, I
don't know, uptime. Maybe like uptime
could be the thing that we're like, you
know, that we're valuing and then that
can be that could be it. Like is is this
an actual
>> like path forward or are we
>> I don't from your perspective, are we
just going to see continued push on
double your token usage, double your
token usage? because they both sound
super appealing I guess from a purely
theoretical point of view of like oh
more features we could know we could get
all the features or no let's be stable.
>> Uh again I think they so as we as we
discussed with Casey and Casey you
should you should jump in on on this
part. Um like we've seen these cycles of
like everything has to be you know like
25 years ago everything had to be online
and then everything had to be uh web 2.0
And then everything had to be uh like
social local mobile app and then
everything had to be crypto right and
that right so um we are in that phase
absolutely right now where separate from
any utility that the technology is
offering there's just this social mania
of everything has to be this right now
uh
>> I don't know when that fever will break
um I think certainly events like the
Amazon um Amazon event will will help
with that and I I do think that at some
point people someone is going to say,
"Okay, look, like um we just can't be
burning this kind of money all the time
and also like setting our infrastructure
on fire and driving our engineers
crazy."
At some point, at some point, we should
actually get a benefit from this instead
of hurting ourselves.
>> You can only pick two points on that
triangle. Drive engineers crazy, burn a
lot of money, uptime. You get to pick
two of those points.
>> Yeah, it's true.
>> Um but, uh I think I think this could
last for years. And the reason I say it
could last for years, I know people will
not like that. Uh I think the reason
this can last for years is uh it's easy
to underestimate
um like on like you know you guys or
like people who watch this uh you know
watch the stream how far how far up the
the like power law curve of uh early
adopter you are. And I
>> just meet lots of people all the time
who
>> still conceptualize AI as like it's a
better search engine, right? And I I
mean it's uh it's easy to forget that
actually the vast majority of people
don't know much about this and aren't
really trying to use it. And um so all
those people somehow will have to be
carried through the uh the fever swamp.
Um and I don't know like I think that
could take years. Um,
>> I would agree with that uh for and add
the sort of the chaser which I think we
did talk about on that first episode of
the podcast which was I don't see it as
mattering whether it takes down proud
all the time either is the problem
because like at least my experience for
the past 20 years has been it doesn't
matter how bad the practice is. If it's
just something that is in the zeitgeist,
then people do it and you can show them
>> clearly like you can literally
demonstrate, look, if you had done it
this way, this is how much better it
would be. They don't care because the
best practices is that you do it this
other way. The best practice is you use
Python, then we're using Python or
whatever it is. And you're like, look,
if you had just written it this way,
it's a hundred times faster. And you're
like, we don't care. That's how this
industry has operated. And so it would
be very weird to think that in the
special case of AI that anyone would
care one way or another whether it even
was better. Right? So you can almost
take your take your guesses about how uh
good AI will be in practice about
generating code in the first place. You
could even put that aside. I think the
fact that it has this much momentum is
enough to know that this will be here
for uh a long time. the current way
we're doing things. Even if it never
gets any better than it is right now,
even if it stayed exactly as good as it
is right now, no improvements literally
at all,
>> I I don't think that would change the
outcome. Honestly, I really don't.
>> Well, and there's like a trillion
dollars invested in it, too, right? So,
they're like, well, even if even and
it's I mean,
>> it's not really even Sunk fallacy. It's
just like literally sunk cough truthy
which is like we really we really need
this to work guys or we're really
underwater right it's not like
>> so it will become the workflow I think
that's like inevitable uh and
>> like I wish that it I wish that we could
say like well if the AIS don't improve
uh substantially then people would like
rethink the I don't I don't think that's
true like I think whether or not they're
able to push the quality up. I mean,
hopefully they are cuz, you know,
everyone is putting a lot of money into
pushing the quality of the ads. So,
hopefully they do get better. But even
if they don't, I don't think it's going
to matter, personally. Hey guys, if you
like this episode, you can watch the
rest of it on the Spotify. And don't
forget to like and subscribe. Woo! See
you later.
>> Boot up today.
Five errors on my screen.
Terminal coffee
and
living the dream.