I appeared on camera for an interview,
not so long ago, and I was really
surprised by how many of you fellow
scholars said that you would like to see
more. So, first of all, thank you so
much for all the kind words. Second,
I thought, let's try this and hope that
you will enjoy it. Dear fellow scholars,
this is Two Minute Papers with Dr.
Karoly Zsolnai-Feher. Look, it only took
1,000 episodes. Now, I have an amazing
paper for you because scientists at
DeepMind did something pretty insane.
Our question today is, can an AI invent
something that is fundamentally new and
pushes humanity forward?
Well, they said that their new AI agent
can actually do research and even write
research papers.
Most of the core content, anyway.
Is that insane? Well,
it's not.
A lot of other people have tried it, and
the only insane thing about it was how
many poor papers they wrote.
But, it turns out there is levels to
this game.
You see, I visited the research group
that is behind this work last year. I
flew to Mountain View into this crazy
lab, and the grumpy guard didn't even
want to let me in first.
Crazy town. So, I was very surprised
that they are guarding these secrets and
they take them very seriously.
What is even more surprising is that now
they give some of those secrets away to
all of us for free. Now, that is insane.
More on that in a moment. So, I talked
to the scientists. This was the research
group of Work Lab. They are brilliant.
They wrote an AI that was able to do a
gold medal worthy performance on the
Mathematical Olympiad. This is serious
business. Then, they released this
technique. Anyone who is made out of
money bags and pays for Gemini Advanced
can use it. It is called Deep Think. And
now, this AI is even better than that.
They call it Alethia. Now, that, once
again, is insane.
Okay, what does it do? Well, it promises
that it does research. It solves novel
problems.
This is something that could push
humanity forward. Now, that is so much
harder than the Mathematical Olympiad.
Why is that? Well, in this contest, you
have a not that huge piece of core
knowledge you are supposed to have, and
every problem can be guaranteed to be
solved by a small set of tools. So,
every problem is nice, shiny, and
polished.
Really tough,
but polished. You know what is not
polished at all? Real-life problems.
With these open problems, we don't even
know if they are solvable at all. Maybe
they are impossible. Or maybe possible,
but not with our current tools. That's
the point. No one knows. When this
technique is given a problem, the
generator starts working on it, creates
a candidate solution, and now, here is
the most important part of the paper,
the verifier. This takes a look and
says, "Okay, bro.
This is junk. Start again." This is
essentially a filter.
You know, that's actually really good
life advice. Sometimes, it's good to
have a filter so you don't shoot these
hot takes out there into the ether.
Now, every now and then, the solution
looks pretty good and could maybe pass
with a few modifications. Then, it gets
polished for another round of reviews,
and so it goes. Hmm.
Sounds simple. Maybe even trivial,
right? So, what is so scientific about
this? Why doesn't every system do that?
Well, that's easier said than done. In
fact, it is almost impossible to pull
that off.
Why? One, when the AI is doing something
fundamentally new, unfortunately,
hallucinations still happen.
Yep.
It just makes stuff up. Fake papers,
fictitious authors, you name it. All
kinds of junk comes out. Two, when you
want to compute 1 + 1 or other simple
things, you have tons of training data
about it out there. You can verify that
easily.
But, if you want to do frontier
research,
hmm, there is no training data on what
we don't even know yet. Of course, there
isn't. You are trying to invent things
no one understands yet. These two
factors make it extremely difficult to
get an AI to do something fundamentally
new and useful.
So,
how did they pull it off? Well, with
three key steps. First, Alethia does not
use this formal, rigid math language to
check its own proofs. It uses natural
English language. That is notoriously
hard because when the AI checks its own
writing, it just blindly agrees with it.
Well,
we humans do that, too. Now, here, the
researchers found a way to separate the
thinking part from the answer part.
>> [snorts]
>> So, the messy train of thought is hidden
from the verifier, thus it cannot trick
itself into just blindly agreeing with
itself.
Brilliant. Our brains would need
something like that, too. Then, two,
they let the computer think longer.
Hmm.
That's not new. However, they added some
optimizations to this, so much so that
the model they have now is just as smart
as the one from 6 months ago. But, hold
on to your papers, fellow scholars,
because, yes, same smarts, but it uses
100 times less compute.
What?
Crazy. They trained a much stronger base
model, which made it more efficient at
reasoning. So, this one, even without
internet access, beats the Mathematical
Olympiad gold AI easily. About 65% was
improved to 95%.
Wow.
It went from a bit better than a coin
flip to destroying the tasks made for
some of the best human minds. Now,
three, they give the AI the ability to
search for stuff. We are talking about
Google, after all. Once again, that is
easy.
However, getting the AI to read and
combine [clears throat] techniques from
dozens and dozens of cutting-edge
research papers without losing its mind,
now, that is hard. You saw it earlier,
this really happens. They heavily
trained this AI to be able to use these
tools and research works that are out
there, and that was what finally stopped
it from making up junk.
Okay. So,
how good is it?
First, I saw that it solved a few of
these Erdős problems. It autonomously
found the answer to four open math
puzzles left behind by a legendary
Hungarian mathematician. Is that insane?
Well, I asked a mathematician friend. He
told me, "Yeah, that's pretty good."
But, there are so many of these problems
out there, and not a ton of people work
on them. In other words, they are fairly
easy. They were just ignored by experts
for years. So, not nearly as good as I
thought. But, then, it stepped up its
game and wrote the core contents of a
research paper on something new.
by a human scientist. They had one paper
on calculating constants in arithmetic
geometry. And then, it helped human
scientists write four other papers, like
finding new limits for interacting
particles. So, how good are these
research works? Well, they are submitted
for peer review,
>> [clears throat]
>> and that's going to take a while. So, in
the meantime, they had a bunch of math
experts look at it, many of them
independent scientists. They checked it
for correctness and novelty. And
it checks out, man. I think, for the
first time ever, an AI created core
parts of a research work that is new, it
has impact, it is useful. That is
Wow. What a time to be alive. So, I told
you, there is levels to this game. So,
where are we now? Level zero is
negligible novelty work.
It can do that. Level one is somewhat
novel work. It can do that, too. But,
now, it can help a person create
publishable level research. That is
incredible. What about levels three and
four?
Those are ground-breaking works. These
are out of reach. But, I ask you, fellow
scholars, given the pace of progress,
for how long?
For 6 more months? And I think that is
something that needs to be talked about
more. Research helping people live a
better life. I love it. And thank you so
much to all of you, fellow scholars, for
watching us over the years. We can only
exist because of you, fellow scholars.
So, I really hope that you enjoyed this.
This allows me to talk about papers
where there is not a lot of visual
content, and I really wanted to share
this with you. Let me know in the
comments if we should do more. Thank
you. Here, you see me running the full
Deep Seek AI model through Lambda GPU
Cloud. 671
billion parameters running super fast
and super reliably. This is insane. I
love it, and I use it on a regular
basis. Lambda provides you with powerful
Nvidia GPUs to run your own chatbots and
experiments. Seriously, try it out now
at lambda.ai/papers
or click the link in the description.