All right. Hello, Mario. Uh, could you
please introduce yourself and what you
do?
>> Sure. Well, thanks for having me. My
name is Mario. I hail from Austria,
somewhere deep inside of Europe. I used
to do a lot of stuff and I still do a
lot of stuff. Started my career in
applied science, mostly machine learning
stuff and visualization and information
retrieval stuff. Did a short stint in
San Francisco to work on mobile games.
came back, became a manager, got bored,
did a startup with two friends, sold
that to Samarind/ Microsoft, and then
joined my best friend with some game
development shovel shovels that we sell
to game development companies and Emma
free spirit who can do pretty much
whatever he wants to do with his time.
>> That's a very good intro. Uh, I know you
from the internet mainly. Uh, I know you
through PI, which is the CLI agent that
you have been building. I found it to be
like super unique like from my personal
usage I use a lot of them. What are you
doing like these days? What's got your
attention?
>> Well, now that there's the holidays, my
attention is mostly focused on pie and
family.
Uh so I'm trying to use those two weeks
uh to just make pie stable enough so
people can enjoy it. Although that's not
the main cause why I built Pi. Pi is
mostly for me because I got a little bit
let's say disappointed with the tools of
the trade like cloud code and codeex and
Gemini CLI and all that stuff and I'm a
simple boy so I need simple tools so I
built a simple tool for myself. Yeah.
And before that I spent most of the year
getting agents coding agents to work on
brownfield projects. Um that is big old
legacy code bases. Well maybe not legacy
but big old code bases that weren't
created during the era of agents so to
speak. And so I spent a lot of the early
uh 2025 figuring out how to make agents
work in brownfield projects and that
basically resulted in my in all the
learnings that I applied to pi. Keep
things simple. That that's the thing
that works the best for me at least.
>> I have just a whole bunch of questions
around that. like uh I I mean I I
started coding before all this happened
about like 3 or 4 years before at least
it got into like the public and I even
started earlier than that but I was a
like amateur or teenager things have
changed a lot I feel and also like very
little I see some people it's like
different classes I guess of developers
the people that are like really it's
it's hard to say but those people that
are like traditionally seen as very
intelligent smart you know uh dedicated
engineers tend to like not like AI or
feel like it's not uh good uh at a lot
of things. And I I'm just very curious
about like what you think of it cuz I I
get so many contradicting opinions given
that you you know you had a stint in uh
uh ML and you're actually building these
kinds of tools. Uh what are your
thoughts about this?
>> Well, so I've been programming for about
30 years now. [laughter] So my view
might be a little different uh than than
yours. and I would actually be
interested in your view as well, but I'm
not sure if that's the format you want
to have on the podcast. Anyways, um
yeah, I I think a lot of old people like
me are very set in their ways that comes
with age. Um so adapting new tools when
you spend a full career honing [snorts]
your skills and getting to a point where
you're like super streamlined and
efficient with the tools you had before,
it can be kind of scary to jump into a
new thing and basically rework all the
things that you did over the past 10,
20, 30 years. So I I get where those
people are coming from. And the other
thing I also get is that LLMs aren't
magic. Like they can [ __ ] out code real
well, but that code is mostly bad. At
least if you apply standards that you're
used to from before agents. So I think
that's where some of the push back is
coming from. But I've also seen like I
have a lot of other old programmer
friends and I probably was one of the
first in that circle that started using
those things back in 2023.
Not for programming as we do now but you
know the copy and paste thing go to JGPT
web uh paste in a function ask for a
thing get a new function out stuff like
that. Um, so I've been in this game for
quite a while, but and they haven't. So
they also don't know what's available
there and how it works and how to apply
it. So every time I introduce one of my
old programmer friends to these tools, I
do it in an ad hoc kind of learning by
doing way sit down, we grab one of their
repositories and we see if we can
implement a feature, implement a buck.
And as soon as they actually get to
experience the whole workflow, they kind
of warm up to the idea. not for
everything especially not architecture
and and and more deep thinking work but
for menial tasks they actually start
using it so I think it's mostly a matter
of introducing them to the tools in a
way that makes sense for their workflows
for their existing things showing them
how they can slot it in in their
existing workflows
>> I did not code for that long before
these things came in I mean I had like
some professional experience at that
point and uh I was making a living
coding as a as a contractor or whatever
like a freelancer I I would say and um
at least in my personal career
experience it's not total accuracy that
is the point it's like we have an idea
we've saved money up or we've gotten an
investment and we want to execute on
this and then get it in front of people
and then get feedback and iterate uh and
then get to a point where we could sell.
So like that's kind of like the mindset
that my clients interact with me from.
And so they actually prefer like you
know just like the AI le let's call it
slop because a lot of it is slop like it
does this thing where it's kind of like
a psychedelic in a way where it it shows
you like a picture of like something
that kind of works but whenever you zoom
in on any specific piece it just like
goes away like it it falls apart, right?
any specific pieces is like inaccurate
in many different ways, but the whole
picture somehow works. And I think for
people that are like um systems isn't
the right word, but like they're
building like foundational tools, so
foundational tools or uh like ffmpeg or
networking software. I feel like those
people, they rightfully so don't see the
value in it because it's it's probably
going to be able to get a lot of code
out and features out, but it's not
precise and specific enough for their um
for the world that they work in. So,
what was the work that you did mainly
like? What's the theme of the work that
you did over your career?
>> Actually, before I answer that, might I
just jump back in and like a back and
forth? So, I totally get that like for
green field projects and spitting
something out for a client, maybe just
an MVP or whatever. It's perfect. I love
it and I do that myself all the time.
Like I don't have clients in the in the
in the usual sense because I'm
financially independent now, but I do a
lot of how should I put it public good
work just building little dashboards,
little tools to illustrate political
points to illustrate economical points
to a general audience that's not
technical, right? And for that kind of
stuff that those one-off projects that
take like one or two nights, it's
amazing. I love it and I don't care if
it's slop. I also think that this works
for startups um that haven't gone to
market yet. Perfect. Like you accelerate
so much by just using these tools and
getting something out. Bam, bam, bam.
That's awesome. Where it falls apart is
when you have a brownfield project
that's already existing, then those
tools don't work uh like they do in in
in the cases that you described. At
least it needs a lot of work to get them
to work that way. And the other thing is
once you have your green field project
out in the open, eventually it becomes a
brownfield project. and my experience
with the tools so far. I've built a
bunch of projects that are quite sizable
just using agents and there's a specific
point a specific level of complexity to
a project where the agent just stops
working because context gathering is too
hard for them. They cannot keep even an
overview of the system in context to be
effective anymore and then it starts
getting bad. then it starts you just
build up slop and slop and slop and
depth and you can't agent your work uh
yourself out of that like no agent's
going to help you at that point.
>> I wanted to touch on that. So like I uh
I'm making like a visual right now that
I'm going to post later which is the
various model types and their strengths
and weaknesses cuz claude is like this
uh surface level machine right it just
it can throw out code it can make
anything work it can like pretty much do
any action that you ask it like any goal
that you give it it will reach it does
it reach it in a way that's like uh
long-term scalable no way like claude
has this problem but it can make things
work so setting up projects like uh if I
am coming to a new brownfield project
which I I work on a few um like okay I
need to get this set up I need docker I
need all this stuff cloud code is great
with that like hey just go figure it out
I don't care with GPT it it's like this
drilling machine so like one of them is
like a horizontal like surface level uh
machine and the other one is like a a
vertical like dig in machine now I
personally have not run into a
limitation where I feel like I can't use
them anymore. But I also have not worked
on like the types of like Titan
repositories that uh I would say maybe
like a Microsoft acquisition would would
would have, right? Like acquiring
something that's probably like already
been through the market and and
experienced many different like phases
in its life cycle. Does that does that
make sense?
>> Yeah, that makes sense. Like I agree
that cloud is like the agentic machine
that you can use for general computer
use stuff like fix my sets HRC file or
go spin up that docker container or ssh
into my server and figure out why kett
is blowing up. Perfect. Um but yeah it's
very shallow and it's very lazy. Uh it
doesn't drill down as you say and it
doesn't like to gather a lot of context
like it will it will not read the full
file ever. it will first grab for
something that it thinks is in the file
and then read 50 lines of that file and
think all I need and that's where the
slop mostly comes from at least with
cloud. Uh so GPT codeex I have to be
honest I haven't tried 5.2 yet and I
agree that it's amazing at drilling down
and finding really complex bugs but it's
so inefficient at uh computer use that
when it comes time to implement things
it's just it doesn't work for my
workflow. I need quick iterations and
GPT is just a slow pig.
>> So, so the thing is I I pay for both,
right? Like I use both and like I have
the max like pro and max uh and I have
like two two max and the reason is like
I like there's so uh the way I work
which is like I think it's insane. I
don't I don't know if anybody else works
like this uh you know like a lot of
people they restart a project after a
certain level of complexity. So I'll get
it to like a v1 we have a v1 project. uh
instead of iterating on that, I make a
new directory and I say here's an
example of what I want, but I want to do
it with like 30% less code example. And
then I'll basically have them rebuild
the project and then I just like shift
the git around. So they're not iterating
on a single project. They're just
rebuilding the same thing up until the
point where I feel like it's efficient
enough or like safe enough or what
whatever. Uh which is again pretty
crazy. But I have like I go through
phases. So Claude get it working and
then GPT get it like implemented or get
me the plans and then uh Claude get it
working right and go between them back
and forth. Uh I have like I think Oh,
how was the shift from pre Oopus and pre
like maybe GPT5. So you you don't you
you haven't used that much but how's the
shift of um pre and post opus been for
you? I think the biggest step change was
between Sonnet 3.7 and Sonnet 4.5. That
was noticeable in terms of quality.
Between Sonnet 4.5 and Opus, I
I don't feel like the step change was
that big comparatively. With 4.5, I
could actually trust the model to do
specific tasks. Uh with 3.7, not so
much. With 4.5 opus, it can probably
crack a few harder problems. Like what
models are really bad at is concurrency.
any kind of concurrency they suck at. Uh
they also have troubles understanding
complex state machines. Um which kind of
makes sense. Uh especially state
machines that aren't located in a single
piece of code but distributed over a
more complex system. Um [snorts] and I
feel like Opus has a bit of a better
handle on these. Uh but other than that,
I I haven't seen uh [snorts] that
improvement that you would guess was
there if you just read Twitter.
But it's al probably also depends on the
domain. like my domains are very
specialized and coming just back uh to
to the the other point about brownfield
projects and so on and so forth and what
you said about ffmpeg so people that
work on things like ffmpe they do deep
tech they don't do crowd applications
crowd applications are perfect for lms
those are well trotten paths everybody
knows how they work there's plenty of
examples on the internet building a
decoder encoder pair or de moxer like in
ffmpeg that's not in a training set
that's out of distrib distribution and
you will not get help with that from an
LLM at the level that makes sense. They
can spit out some assembly code for all
kinds of CPU architectures, but it will
suck really bad.
And in my line of work, um, so the thing
I'm earning money with still is uh
called Spine. It's a 2D skeleton
animation software. Think of it like
Photoshop for animations. And that's not
deep tech per se. It's not complex code.
Um, but it's a lot of it and multi-
language, right? So the way it works,
you have a you have an editor and you
export your animations and then you have
a game engine, be it Unity, Unreal,
Kocco, whatever, monogame, and you load
those animations back into the game. And
for loading and rendering within a
specific uh engine, uh you need a
runtime that can do all that inside the
engine. So we have runtimes for Java, C,
C++, C, Swift, uh, Dart, TypeScript,
and I probably forget to h
so bunch of languages like it's a huge
polyglot repository, but each runtime is
only like 30 to 45,000
lines of code. So not humongous, you can
actually read an entire runtime into
context, even into Opus context. So
early when I when I try to integrate
agents into this brownfield project I a
common task is we have a reference
implementation in Java if that changes
that needs to be ported to all the other
languages right and you would think that
that's the perfect thing for an LLM and
to this day every time a new model comes
out none of them can do it none not even
codecs
they just suck and it's a trivial task
it's the the the runtimes are super
aligned in terms of structure file names
classes, interfaces, type shapes, and so
on. They suck. They can't do it.
>> So, there was this uh like one of the
Andre Carpathy videos where he goes over
like what is an LLM? And one thing he
showed is that like they write Python
scripts that basically take the like
original input and then like get you the
output in a non like you're not doing it
within the context of the LLM. You're
doing it essentially within like a
system. So, it builds a file and then
uses the file to port everything. I
don't know if that would work, right? So
like this is the kind of mindset that
I've had recently with problem solving
is like okay what is the what is the
limit which I again like it could be
very stupid I could be like really going
down like the wrong path
>> actually like I wrote about this on my
blog uh in June props are code JSON and
MD files are state and this is exactly
what I did back then I I basically
serialized out state into JSON and MD
files and had the model you can read it
up
>> I will read it up I will
>> I did this 6 months ago for this
specific problem and I made it work, but
it's still not something where it can
say, "Hey, dear model, just do my work."
It doesn't work.
>> Yeah, you have to be in the loop
constantly for it.
>> Not necessarily in the loop. There's a
lot of uh things that it could do
autonomously, but you have to be in the
loop eventually to check on the work
>> because it's definitely going to be
wrong and broken.
>> How about like from a validation and
testing? And so, this is something that
I adopted like pre and post. Another one
of the things that like changed for me
is now everything has tests. Most of the
tests are crap, but they, you know,
they're also LLM generated most of the
time. Uh, or I get somebody to do it for
me at this point. Like if if it's really
tough and I set those up and like
obviously they can do things where they
can like mock data or like Claude loves
that. Claude loves that a lot. Like they
Claude loves to just take like a thing
that you're supposed to be doing and
then turn it into a mock and say, "Yeah,
it's it's done." Right? And uh that's
one of the things I really dislike for
me. Opus does not do that as often as
Sumat 4.5 does that a lot and it like
spits out markdown files constantly and
so I preferred the Chinese models like
when uh before Opus 4.5 like I canceled
my subscription and I was just using the
Chinese models because I found them to
be less like annoying with that. But h
how have you implemented this like
validation testing uh linting?
What's your strategy here?
>> So most of my projects nowadays are
typescript nodebased. So I just have a
pre-commit hook that runs full type
checking and linting. I'm just using t T
T T T T T T T T T T T T T T T T T T T Go
the the Go based TypeScript compiler
which is really fast and biome for
linting which is also really fast and
that works. I don't need to remind my
model or agent to do this. Uh every time
it commits it's going to get screamed at
if something is broken which for me is
the perfect place in an agent run for it
to check its work. So um it can't commit
if it doesn't doesn't fix all the
things. So this works brilliantly. This
also works for other languages. Uh in
spine uh in the spine runtimes they also
have a bunch of pre-commit hooks that do
exactly the same. The other thing is
while the model works so not at the end
of its turn so to speak but while it
works it also needs a way to verify its
work. And as you said models can write a
lot of tests but most of them are
garbage. And it's not just that the that
the tests they write are garbage. Uh
it's also that if there are existing
tests and they fail, I've seen opens do
it as well, but Sonnet does it more
here, right? U it will just disable
asserts, it will just go in and say,
"Ah, I don't think we need that assert.
Let's just disable it and then my
checks, my tests pass, and I can
commit." So yeah, for that I haven't
really found a solution yet other than
restricting right access to tests.
>> Yeah. Well, I think there's like this
whole nent like side of the field of
like how do you give it permissions so
that you can walk away from it without
like letting it like damage itself or
also the computer is like one is okay
it'll just go and change the the test
files to make them uh pass. So you can't
really review it once and then decide
okay it everything's passing or it'll
mock stuff. uh or two is just going to
like I I had recently like a month ago I
have a like an AI server here that that
I'm running and uh I had a a mount and
it went and just like deleted the whole
thing. there's like 3 TB of data just
got but like I have redundancy on things
and like it's fine and but that was like
a big wakeup call for me and the thing
is I still haven't turned off by like
bypass permissions because it's just too
timeconuming like if I have to just keep
going back to it it's like every 2
minutes I need to go back into the loop
when I could set it up and let it run
for an hour and then go do other setups
and let them run. So, uh the one that I
found like the the the harness that I
found that does this really well is uh
what's it called? Droid like Droid has a
very good permission system and like
they have like uh none low, medium and
high and plan with plan is just read
only everything. Uh with the refs I
don't know like it's not very I think
you can configure it probably but um
remove RF not going to not going to work
for them uh if you have it on media but
everything else works right. um or like
deleting or uh like you can decide what
uh I haven't done too much of that. Uh
how are you thinking about this
specifically because you're building one
of these things and this is a big
problem.
>> Yeah. And that is why pi out of the box
is yolo mode because I found that um
existing permission modes work for some
things but they don't work for other
things. Like as we just uh talked about
for a specific task I don't want the
model to be able to modify any of the
test files. It should only have read
access, right? I can't and and otherwise
it should have full access to
everything. This is just for this one
task. I don't want it to have read uh
write access to the test files. I can't
build that with any harness at the
moment. The the harnesses are either
super fine grains, specify a bunch of
patterns to uh that are allowed or
disallowed. That doesn't work or lock it
fully down or open it up fully. And so
in Pi, I just made an extension system
where you can plug in your own hook real
quick for your specific project for that
specific task to allow only the things
you want to be allowed to be allowed.
>> Um, and and that works for me. But
there's multiple layers to this. Like
there's task specific restrictions I
want to have, then there's project
specific restrictions, and then there's
machine level restrictions, right? And I
personally think like I run all my agent
harnesses irrespective of whether it's
pi or cloud code or whatever uh in yolo
mode on my machine just because my
machine uh is basically ephemeral. If
something [ __ ] up it takes me 5 minutes
to get everything back more or less.
That works for me that won't work for
other people. The only way to kind of
counteract that is virtualize things.
Use a docker container pot uh podman.
What's it called? Yeah, pman I think
it's called. use that and and just uh
isolate the agent in a container and
that's the only way to keep your machine
safe if you really need that. Then
there's also the question of of
credentials which makes it even harder.
I use a GitHub CLI a lot so the agent
has access to that with that. It can
extract any kind of token it it needs to
[ __ ] [ __ ] up or excfiltrate it to a
third party. In that case it doesn't
matter if you put it in a container or
not. If it needs that tool then it has
access to the token. And for that
specific problem, I haven't found a
solution yet. MCP might be actually one
which I hate to say, but that's one
layer of isolation where you can expose
a tool to the agent without also
exposing exposing credentials to it. But
that only works if it's not a bash
accessible to it.
>> Yeah. If it's bash, yeah. Yeah. Can do
whatever it wants. So there is a harness
root code. I I don't know if you've
tried it or not. Like if you try like
every time I go and try it like it looks
like it's out ofd and old and like I
don't know like just I don't like the
fact that it's like a VS Code plugin
only maybe they have a CLA I don't know
[snorts] but um Root Code actually has
like a lot of solutions that are way way
ahead of everybody else that nobody
really looks at the they built the
browser into the like Root Code
extension thing. The only option for
this is like Trey and Cursel. Like a
full ID. They have it. Uh but then you
have to pay like a lot of money for
them. I think I spent like $60 in a day
just doing uh uh what's it called? Uh
Opus for 45 minutes, which is crazy. You
know, I could I could get that same
thing, but I wanted the browser, but
real code had it in there already. like
they uh they have um I am really into
the like idea and I think the the way to
go forward is like the orchestration
layer of having one that manages like
like think of all of these extensions
we're talking about is like tools that
it can manage like it it doesn't do any
of the stuff itself but it just fires
off like a a tool version of itself that
can go and do the thing and then you
have a bunch of different like cuz okay
testing you want to run tests, you don't
need to let the main model know, but you
can have like a testing agent and then
that testing agent can't edit the tests
and it spawns only once and it gives
like warnings um just just as an example
to the to the main runner and you have
like the context isolation but it's comp
complicated all of it is like very bad
user experience I think like everything
that we're talking about that's beyond
just prompting is a bad user experience.
>> Exactly. That was my that was my
realization as well. After months of of
trying things out like sub agents, I
understand why people use them. I
stopped using them entirely because my
use case for a sub agent has mostly
boiled down to find me the information I
need so I can start laying out a plan.
So research basically go through the
codebase ingest all the things you can
and filter out what we need for the task
at hand. And for that I don't need a sub
agent. I start a new session. I let the
agent explore the codebase and then just
[ __ ] out whatever it found into a
markdown file. Perfect. I now have state
on disk which I can version which I can
maybe reuse for other tasks. I don't
need a sub agent for that. So once I
have that markdown file, I start a new
session, let the agent read the markdown
file and away we go. That to me is a
much easier mental model working with
these agents than creating 10 different
sub aents all with their own personality
and putting them in an agents folder and
then having a specific set of tools that
they're allowed to use and blah blah
blah blah. I don't care. I don't want to
mess with this kind of setup because
it's I'm probably not smart enough for
to keep it all in my head.
>> I I think I see what you're saying. So
like here here's like just one argument
that's based on your personal workflows
when you have like the agent the the the
main thread that goes and like ingests
everything and now it has like 130,000
uh lines of context like or tokens and
context and um it want like you are
using it to produce now this readme or
like a markdown file like plan MD that
then is going to be ingested by another
model. So when you are killing one and
like turning the other on, right? Uh
that context like it's still accessible
if you do like session then you have the
cache thing like the whole cash read and
the cost of of that it it's not a
problem but what if we could have them
just sit on like they're a service. It's
like they're a server that is providing
like what is needed to the main thread
like this cuz the way sub agents is done
in claude that I don't like is that it's
kind of something that you don't see
like it just spawns it and it's like a
hidden process but if having it on as a
server it's like okay expend like put
these API points uh produce plan
whatever like this is kind of how I'm
thinking of it is like instead of having
these deterministic like servers uh that
are running we have like an AI that can
access context and sit and stay alive
and then take questions.
>> I I understand where you want to go. But
but here's the thing. Um so the problem
is twofold. You have an information
retrieval problem. That is even if you
have a server, a magical oracle that
your main agent can ask for additional
information to be plugged into its
context. The main agent needs to know
how to write the queries for that. And
the oracle that gives you that
information needs to know how to fetch
information based on that query. Humans
are really bad at that. LM are really
bad at that. Like my early work in my
career was information retrieval.
Nothing has changed. Information
retrieval that is given a query, get the
most relevant parts from some data
source is still an unsolved problem.
Knowing that for implementing a specific
task with an agent, I need the
appropriate specifics, the appropriate
information, and it needs to be exact
for the agent to be effective. I don't
want to rely on a on a fussy information
retrieval uh engine. um where I again
like you said it's not visible it's not
observable where I have no control over
what actually gets into the context and
that's my problem with all those memory
systems and all of that stuff that pop
up now this is just magic fairy dust
where I don't get to see what what
actually gets injected into the context
and I don't work like that I need to
know exactly what's in the context I
need control over that so with my
workflow where I have one session
together the context the benefit is I
can then take that markdown file and
manually edit it or edit it together
with an agent until it's perfect until
it has the exact information in the
exact length that I want for the new
session for the new agent to see. Um
that's why I don't use these systems.
And the second problem is context
transfer. Uh this is basically I have a
main agent and a spawn a sub agent. How
do I get the information from the sub
agent back into the main agent? Right?
Uh I haven't seen a single system yet
where this is actually good and it boils
down again to as you said earlier
observability. If a sub agent returns
some information back to my main agent,
I need to know what got injected in
cloud code. I don't think you can see
that
>> in R code going so specific in R code.
They have like this is the first time I
I I came across this with the like the
orchestrator system. It's in root code
it was called boomerang test. So you
have like the the main agent doesn't
write anything. It just writes a
specification based on your prompt and
then sends it out to an agent to do
something. And so when it does that like
the main agent kind of hides the the the
new agent comes in and then it's doing
this stuff and then it like it calls a
tool called like a respond to main
thread. And so that that tool has like
the the the markdown. They literally do
it in markdown that it can that can be
sent back but you are in the editor with
sub agent. So but this is what what this
does is like there's no uh async
>> so it's just synchronous. So it's just
like breaking it down into a workflow
that is predictable and that like
follows the same steps every time. Uh
which you know like again it's like
there's a lot of time setting it up into
it's kind of like tweaking your co
coding environment where you just have
like you have a you have a hammer and
clot and you just do whatever you need
to do like if you like to spend time
tweaking your environment which I love.
I love like the like um minmaxing
things. Uh did like I I I loved playing
uh the the from software games like Dark
Souls, Elden Ring. So I love those games
because they let you just like minmax
like every single detail in the game
which is so fun for me. So I guess this
is part of like the developer experience
then.
>> Yeah I I think so like I like I or
Armena
we are more on the we like to see all
the things side. Other people like Peter
Steinberger are on the I don't want to
see my code anymore. I don't care. And I
think both approaches can work. Um, and
with that different tool sets like
orchestrating frameworks or what have
you work for you or they don't. I I
honestly don't feel like anybody has a
good handle on what's the best way to
achieve things yet. So, we're all just
throwing [ __ ] at the wall and hoping so.
>> We are, but it's working. All of it is
like that's the surprising thing is like
it just works now. The this is okay.
It's it's imperfect. It's like, you
know, it makes huge mistakes, but the
fact that it works in general, I think
is something that still hasn't like
really hit most people. Like maybe maybe
me I'm like a little like crazy about it
but I think most people they don't
really see the connection between like
okay you go onto the chat GPT app and
you send like some messages versus you
can take anything in your life right and
no matter how you want to do it like
visibility no visibility you can
automate it to a certain level make it
better I all my finances go through like
my local one I I run them through my
local like here's all my um bank
statements all the [ __ ] like get me how
much money did I spend where what was
the worst expense, how do I fix it? And
it it's very helpful. I wanted to like
ask you a few questions about PI and
like why did you create it and what was
the like I've read the readme and like
I'm using it and I see but I think you
know for a lot of people they just hear
okay there's clawed code and codecs and
they don't really realize that each one
actually has like its own workflow style
and like the the pros and cons of using
it. So yeah, if you could just tell me a
bit about PI and what it is.
>> Sure. So I prefaced this with a little
bit of history. I was a heavy cloud code
user and before that a heavy cursor
user. So 2024 was my cursor year mostly
with uh tab completions and then
eventually they had composer whatever
which was more like almost an enchanting
thing and then when cloud code came out
in April 25 I was using that heavily for
months and I like to reverse engineer
things although calling it reverse
engineering if you look at the NodeJS
app or a bun app it's not really reverse
engineering at least not the way I'm
used to. So I started reverse
engineering cloud code and it turned out
it did a bunch of stupid things at least
stupid in my opinion which doesn't
matter much like if you had a bash
command it would actually call out into
highQ and u ask is this bash command uh
dangerous and irrespective of whether
that works or not it doesn't it also
introduces a lot of latency so your
agent becomes slower and I hate that I
want quick iteration uh on my on my
things and with every new release of
cloud code they added more and more and
more and more of that kind of stuff
which makes the agent slower. So I set
out to build a thing that replaces cloud
code for me uh which is as fast as it
can be minus the slowness of the model.
Um and I also wanted it to be multimodel
um because in the middle of the year I
started playing with deploying uh open
weights models especially the Chinese
ones which I really really like to data
crunch. So I have an escape hatch. I
hate being dependent on the labs to
provide me. I bought eight GPUs for this
reason and because I I can see that this
is not going to stay at the price it is
right now.
>> No. Like the two even the $200 a month
like
>> even $2,000.
>> Yeah. No. So I I want to be prepared for
the moment where [ __ ] hits the fan and
the VCs no longer want to sponsor our
golden age of agents for cheap. Um so I
experiment experimentmentmented with uh
self-hosting a lot and I think I tried
open code and there was another harness.
Oh yeah right crush. Yeah. So that were
also multi-provider multi multimodel
meaning you can plug in whatever thing
you want as long as it speaks openi
completions or responses or whatever
protocol and I found them to be lacking.
Uh open code didn't work with local
models at all back then. Spec
specifically tool calling was broken for
everything. I haven't used it since. So
I just built this myself uh and made
sure it works with local models or
models hosted on GPU clusters like on
data crunch or what have you. And I
wanted something that fits my workflow
which is very minimalist. So I stripped
away all the things I don't need like
MCP and sub agents and blah blah. But I
made it extensible so you can have those
things if you want to have them. I don't
I'm happy if you use pi and there you
go. You can extend it but don't bother
me with that [ __ ] I don't need it. So
it's not going to be in core. And that's
basically the principle I've followed
here. Build the thing I like to use make
it work for me and if other like it too
make it extensible enough so they can
make it their own.
>> My favorite thing about it like that
well I look any any one that lets me do
multiple models without being like I
don't know you could do it with cloud
code but it's just insane like what you
have to do to do that like use the cloud
code router or like have like a copy and
it's just too complicated. Codeex lets
you do it as well but also very
complicated.
>> Gemini CLI too.
>> Gemini. Yeah. I like I like the I like
pi and I like open code the new version.
So there's like an old open code and a
new one because I tried the old one. I
did not like it. The new one now
specifically. I tried it a few times
over the last months. Uh it's very
visually pleasing. It shows everything
like the context and what where it's at
in the steps in the sidebar and then it
has like the main thread and has a lot
of extendable features which is like you
know you can you can tweak it. Uh I like
the fact that your uh system has uh the
hold in like immediate mode for uh the
message that I found that to be very
tasteful because uh I use codecs when I
want to like when before I go leave for
my day I'll write like an 1 hour scope
make 10 tasks and then have codeex like
uh loop because you could just send it
messages in a queue and it'll do the
thing pretty accurately. So I I like
that. It's it's a great feature. I also
like that it works with Claud. When I
tried Claudis, it wasn't Claudius. It
was something else. It was like another
name. I forgot the name of the repo.
>> Um, was it like a Slackbot thing or like
more personal assistant kind of thing?
>> Yeah, it was owned by Peter. It It's
called Claus now, but it wasn't called
Claus.
>> Oh, yeah. It was called something else.
You're right. Yeah.
>> So, when I when I set that up, Pi was
the only option. And so, that I
installed that and I've I've been using
it since it's been pretty good. Like
maybe 20% of my usage. Where where do
you want to take it from here? like or
do you feel like it's kind of like in a
stable?
>> No, actually it's I spent the past uh 5
days refactoring and I'm still not done.
Basically, I I wanted to be a thing that
is my main driver and it has been for 2
months. But I also want it to be a thing
that allows other people to experiment
with aentic coding. So I the refactor
has a big focus on making really every
part of the pipeline extensible or uh
swappable. So you can now build your own
compaction if you want. Uh we now have a
session tree format. Um so not linear
conversations but actually a tree where
you can branch from and to uh including
uh compaction or summarization of
branches you're leaving to be injected
into uh a new branch you're moving to
all within the same session file all
with full observability and all that
stuff. And I also made it so you can
easily create your own UI inside of PI
in the CLI agent in the CLI in the TUI 2
version of PI. And I think if I get this
right and not too cumbersome and
agentfriendly, so an agent immediately
knows how to write a new hook to do
compaction or a new UI element that
maybe like works like cloud code has
this funny feature where you where the
agent gets a tool to ask you questions.
I don't think it's very good. It works
for very simple things, but most things
aren't simple. So, uh, Armen actually
yesterday built or showed a thing that
he built on top of Pi that's kind of
like that, just lots more free form and
it works perfectly well. Yeah, stuff
like that. So, my goals with Pi going
forward are basically keep it minimal so
I don't get flooded with with stuff that
I don't understand anymore. Uh, and keep
it working for myself mostly. uh make it
extensible so I myself can easily
experiment with new things without
breaking the core and have other people
use it and extend it and maybe um build
a little ecosystem where people can
share their extensions more easily.
>> I like that. I like that. I I'm going to
try to like build something on top of it
in the next few weeks. It's like an
extension or something. I wanted to like
there's there's like a topic that I want
to talk about guitars a bit. I see you
have guitars and like that seems to be a
big part of your life. Uh but real quick
so we can close this like what do you
think about these Chinese models from
your experience now? Like how uh how
good are they?
>> So my first contact with was with Quen
Coder 3 I think was the first model that
I actually found to be interesting
because the 20B version or was it 32B? I
don't remember that works locally on my
Mac actually was useful for Gentics
computer use things not necessarily
coding but computer use things. And I
think I personally would love more edge
models that I can run on smaller devices
just for simple tasks. And I think
that's where Chinese models shine a lot
of them. And recently I found GLM to be
amazing. Though that's not a Chinese
model if I remember correctly. It's also
from the Asian side of the planet, but
not Chinese. In any case, I think that's
the future. I hope it's the future
because I hate nothing more than being
dependent on closed source proprietary
[ __ ] for my own coding work. That
sucks.
And they're getting there. I think next
year we might have models that are
probably on par with OPOS 4.5 now. And
if we get there, I am super [ __ ]
happy. I don't need more in my life.
>> Yeah. Yeah. I I I I fully agree. I mean,
there's one uh American. So like
Numatron 30, it's based off the Quinn.
But I tried that and cuz I have like my
own benchmarks for everything like how
how good. So like I took all of my
conversations from my computer like with
AI agents and all that that that stuff
and got it and then build benchmarks
based on like what I think is like
relevant for my my personal career and
it just topped Neatron 8B very small.
You can run it on a phone and the 32B
one is even better. It like very very
high scores. I don't know how they did
it. Probably a lot of like specifically
for, you know, coding and stuff, but it
was excellent. Let's let's talk a bit
about guitars. Like what how long have
you been playing? And I see you have
three of them just there. There's
probably more.
>> That's more
once missing and somewhere else. Uh
yeah, I I think I started playing the
guitar the same time I started
programming at the tender age of 12. Uh,
which was great because the guitar was
kind of the social thing and the
computer was like the sit in a dark room
at night and hear your sister snore in
the same room because we shared one. We
were poor. Uh, while you type some
QBasic uh into a blue IDE and modify
nibbles.bass or whatever. [snorts] Yeah,
guitars are great. I got a bunch of
custommade ones. A seven uh
12 string one and a baritone one. And
the Veriton one is [ __ ] amazing. It's
like uh I I forgot what key it's in, but
it's very awesome. Yeah. Other than
that, it's been part of my life since
forever. I also did did a lot of singing
in my life and playing on stage and
stuff. So, that was fun, but eventually
you get old and it's kind of silly to
stand in front of a crowd of 20 year
olds when you're like approaching 40. It
just doesn't work for me. [laughter] So
nowadays, I I mostly pray for myself. a
record for myself, put up some German
language stuff on on YouTube maybe, and
I'm happy with that. My wild years are
gone. So, what about you? Are you uh
>> I got one right there. Yeah, I I play I
play. So, I started around a similar
age. I was going to music school. I like
learned how to read it and learned how
to play guitar. Um, but I just kept
taking breaks throughout my life for
like I I spent like I think 4 years just
moving every 6 months uh over Europe
like uh digital nomad life kind of and
it was just like hard to keep up with
it. So I know like a bunch of songs. I
could play a bunch of songs but when it
comes to like doing anything that's not
a copy I I don't really I don't really
have that skill. Although I could
probably develop it. I debate it all the
time. I love I love guitar. I love the
the Spanish music, the Mexican music,
like the uh I forgot what it's called,
like you know, they pluck the uh
>> ding ding ding ding.
>> Yeah. Yeah.
>> Uh and I love um like Radio Head and
like this like progressive rock, I think
is the is the name. Like the the music
that changes over the song throughout
the life. I I love that. It's very
beautiful to my ears. Uh how have you
stayed consistent with it? I mean, you
probably have had a very busy life. So
I'm I don't do quantis quantified self.
I I hate that. Uh everything that's not
computer is feeling. Um so I I don't
have goals with guitar playing. I I just
play. I actually cannot read notes. I
learned it by
having a lot of friends that were
musicians in my circle of friends who
showed me stuff and eventually you
develop a feeling for how things fit
together without knowing the theory too
much. I eventually learned some theory
but honestly I don't apply it. Doesn't
matter. Uh so consistency I don't know
it was a lot of practice like I can
become what's it called compulsively
obsessed with a thing. So the first two
years of guitar playing was basically me
just pleading from my fingertips all the
time because I played so much. Um just
learning the songs of the bands I love
until I got that nailed down and also
learning how to sing those things. And
after that it was mostly an emotional
thing. Um, like if I felt like writing a
song, I wrote a song. And if I didn't
feel like writing a song for a year, I
didn't touch the guitar and it was fine,
too. Um, I I don't have goals with that.
I don't I just want it to be a nice
thing I can do when I feel like it.
>> I just my interests shift a lot and I
think there's just so much in this world
that I want to do and I don't have much
time to do it realistically. This is
like my biggest like this is kind of why
I want to go all in on this tech
technology is if I could figure out how
to cultivate a working system that could
earn me a living outside of like
actually uh selling a company and having
stock like I I I try to do that. I'm
still young. But I just like look
financially I don't think we're in a
good place. I don't think it's going to
get better. I don't think it's also
going to pop, right? like the like it's
not going to explode and that we have to
rebuild in in my lifetime. I don't think
it's I could be wrong.
>> Let me put it that way. Most of the
experiences I made in my life was when I
was dirt poor and had a regular job.
>> Yeah. Yeah, my my my keys to success was
just never working more than 30 hours a
week. And all of a sudden, you have a
lot of time for things that actually
interest you. And with that, I could do
all of these things. And and that has
worked for me. And since I am
financially independent, I obviously saw
a lot of nice things. Um, but I I
wouldn't say I made more or better
experiences just because of that. So,
uh, financial independence does not
necessarily mean you get to experience
more of life. It's what you make of it.
which sounds [ __ ] terrible and
pathetic but
>> yeah
it's I h
like in as a percentage of the world I'm
in like a very high percent but when it
like cuz okay so when you're a high
percent like earner and you are living
in a city you're around other high
percent earners and so like you you guys
are all driving up the price of like
stupid stuff to like you know if I were
living in um in a place that was like
quiet uh countryside. Uh I would
definitely feel like I have more time.
Uh but now I have to compete because I'm
in a place that requires that to to like
live and things are just getting
expensive. It's hard to like buy uh hard
assets and maintain them. So
everything's like a 30-year contract.
You can't even go with cash really
unless you have a lot and say I want to
buy a house. You have to do this whole
song and dance. I I could start ranting
about this forever like angry at the
government.
>> No, I get you. I I totally get you. Um,
so while we are filthy rich, we have a
son and I don't want him to think we are
rich. So we settled down in a a normal
neighborhood, uh, not cheap, not
expensive. And this works for us. We are
not missing anything. We could buy a
McMansion somewhere up on a hill, but
that wouldn't make us happy. And I
totally get what you're saying about uh,
gentrification basically. Uh, yeah, just
move, man.
It's not where you live. It's it's it's
it's
>> I think I think you might be I mean I
like interesting people. That's like one
of my favorite things is like I want to
find people that I think are like and
that gets harder and harder as you find
more interesting people because like
okay you already know all of them. So
how do you get better ones and then you
start think I think Warsaw is too small
for me. I don't mean this in like an
egotistical ways like realistically I've
been to every meetup, every event. I
know everybody. I know all the
companies. So, it's like I've outgrown
it and I can't go to the countryside and
also have that without really shattering
my life. I'm not arguing with you. I'm
just like saying how I'm thinking about
it.
>> Like I totally get that and if I was
your age, I would do I I actually did
that basically uh when I was your age.
So,
>> you do you, man. Just you have a very
Pokemon kind of mindset.
>> You want to catch them all like ways of
life like guitar playing, computing,
meeting people, meetups, living
whatever. I think that's awesome. and
and just keep doing that until you get
uh bored of it and want to settle down.
[laughter]
>> You have a son?
>> Yeah.
>> So, I also have one son. I almost have a
daughter on the way as well. So, that's
like another thing that takes up so much
time,
>> but it's the best thing. It's the like
uh I I will ask you about how you
balance it like just the to to comment
like I think there's nothing in my life
that I've ever experienced that's like
whenever I'm spending time with him,
there's like something so mentally like
it gets boring, right? like you get
bored of everything. So, but there is
something like uh emotional about it
that is just unnatural or like to an act
I don't know natural unnatural. It it it
doesn't you don't have that experience
elsewhere.
>> Yeah. Something biochemically overrides
your desire to do something that
actually interests you while the little
one is just picking his nose or doing
something really stupid. I I totally get
that. But I I have to be honest with
you, when he was early uh when when he
was really young, I did get bored as
[ __ ] on. Like I hate it. So, it really
just sticking around and and nothing
happens. But as it gets older, it
becomes more interesting. Like now we
can go ice skating. Now we can go
bouldering. Now we can go whatever the
[ __ ] we want. Like there's a wood right
over there. We just step out 10 m and we
have the biggest adventure ground you
can imagine. And yeah, it's awesome. I I
I love it. In terms of balancing it with
everything else, the keys to success is
once he's asleep, don't waste your time
watching TV, but just do some
interesting things. That's at least
that's what works for me, which is
easier said than done.
>> I think I think that I mean I think that
makes a lot of sense. When when he was 6
months old, I didn't feel anything
towards him and like it was just weird
because like I'd never get anything
back. So it's like uh but I saw that my
wife would get something back from like
like you know just the relationship type
is different. But now that he's like
over 2 years old, it's just so fun. He's
so fun. Like even if he's doing silly
things is like it's ridic they do it in
a ridiculous way. their personalities
are very captivating. Anything else
about your life that you feel Yeah.
Yeah. that you'd like to share like and
you've had a very long complicated many
stages in your life. Um what's been the
like constant thing around all of it?
>> Not taking anything seriously. That's
the only thing that keeps you sane
really. If you take something too
serious, it can destroy you. And I've
been down that road and it sucks. Do it.
It's just a game. you have one life and
you see my t-shirt [laughter] that's
basically like yeah ju just don't take
anything seriously it all doesn't matter
in the end you're going to become
stardust again so just I don't know I
just see people making goals and trying
to reach them and breaking while trying
to reach those goals and I think that's
stupid like yeah I I don't have any good
philosophies to share really I think we
should stop here before it gets really
>> no worries no worries No, I mean I very
fascinating like especially the tech
stuff. I'm gonna have all of it uh as
links in the description. Yeah, I've
been like one of you and uh Stify I I I
just know his Twitter user. Yeah, he is
uh like the very fascinating builders
like it's like a new age of builders
that I see very unique work and like
doing it in the public in the open. Uh
it's very cool. So thank you for Yeah,
thank you for that. It's a lot to learn
from. Yeah. Thank you for having me. And
don't take your elders too seriously
either. I
>> I don't I don't. We're all silly.
>> All right. Hopefully we'll talk again.