- Why was my card declined?
- Can I have a refund?
- How do I update my contact and company details on my invoice?
- I've paid my bill so why aren't my services online?
- Can I prepay for my support plans?
- What if I'm unable to pay my invoice?
- I don't recognize a charge on my invoice
- Why don't I see Google Pay as a payment option?
- Do DigitalOcean support plans apply to Cloudways or Paperspace?
- Why does DigitalOcean require prepayment for PayPal?
Billing
Validated on 15 May 2024 • Last edited on 5 Dec 2025
DigitalOcean billing cycles are monthly. Your balance accrues over the course of the calendar month based on the cost of the resources you use. We are also required by law to apply taxes for certain countries.
We automatically invoice and charge your team’s primary payment method on the first day of each month for the previous month’s usage, or partway through the month if you exceed your team’s usage threshold.
For consolidated billing, payment, and invoicing, you can group related teams into an organization, and view detailed spend breakdowns by team.
Payment
Pay bills from DigitalOcean using a credit card, debit card, crypto wallet, third-party provider (like PayPal, Google Pay, or Apple Pay), or a bank account.
How to add, edit, and remove payment methods on your team, including credit cards, debit cards, crypto wallets, and third-party providers.
Our late payment policies for past due accounts and suspended accounts.
Set up billing alerts to receive email notifications when your monthly usage exceeds an amount you specify.
Charges
Invoices list the charges a team has accrued in a given monthly billing cycle.
Redeem a promo code to apply credits to your team.
We are required by law to apply taxes for certain countries depending on the associated team’s tax location. Registered businesses in certain locations can enter a VAT or GST IDs to remove those taxes from their monthly bills.
Consolidated information on bandwidth usage charges for Droplets and other DigitalOcean products.
Pricing details for all DigitalOcean products.
Reference
Use the DigitalOcean API and official CLI client, doctl, to programmatically retrieve your balance, invoices, and billing history.
Use the DigitalOcean MCP Server to view and manage account details, billing history, SSH keys, and balances with the DigitalOcean MCP Server.
Latest Updates
11 February 2026
-
As of 1 February 2026, DigitalOcean charges Retail Sales Tax (RST) for customers with a tax location in Manitoba. This complies with Information Bulletin – RST 033 issued by the Manitoba Government.
Services provided by DigitalOcean to customers located in Manitoba are subject to 7% RST in addition to 5% GST for a total tax rate of 12%. Learn more about taxes in Canada.
15 January 2026
-
To comply with the City of Chicago’s Personal Property Lease Transaction Tax, the sales tax rate for customers in Chicago has increased from 11% to 15%. Learn more about taxes in the United States of America.
1 January 2026
-
To comply with the Government of the Russian Federation’s 2026–28 budget, the VAT rate for customers in Russia has increased from 20% to 22%. Learn more about taxes in Russia.
-
To comply with the Republic of Kazakhstan’s new tax code, the VAT rate for customers in Kazakhstan has increased from 12% to 16%. Learn more about taxes in Kazakhstan.
For more information, see the full release notes.