This post is essentially this comic strip expanded into a full-length post:
For a long time I didn't need a post like the one I'm about to write. If someone brought up the idea of generating code from specifications I'd share the above image with them and that would usually do the trick.
However, agentic coding advocates claim to have found a way to defy gravity and generate code purely from specification documents. Moreover, they've also muddied the waters enough that I believe the above comic strip warrants additional commentary for why their claims are misleading.
In my experience their advocacy is rooted in two common misconceptions:
-
Misconception 1: specification documents are simpler than the corresponding code
They lean on this misconception when marketing agentic coding to believers who think of agentic coding as the next generation of outsourcing. They dream of engineers being turned into managers who author specification documents which they farm out to a team of agents to do the work, which only works if it's cheaper to specify the work than to do the work.
-
Misconception 2: specification work must be more thoughtful than coding work
They lean on this misconception when marketing agentic coding to skeptics concerned that agentic coding will produce unmaintainable slop. The argument is that filtering the work through a specification document will improve quality and promote better engineering practices.
I'll break down why I believe those are misconceptions using a concrete example.
Thinly-veiled code
I'll begin from OpenAI's Symphony project, which OpenAI heralds as as an example of how to generate a project from a specification document.
The Symphony project is an agent orchestrator that claims to be generated from a "specification" (SPEC.md), and I say "specification" in quotes because this file is less of a specification and more like pseudocode in markdown form. If you scratch the surface of the document you'll find it contains things like prose dumps of the database schema:
4.1.6 Live Session (Agent Session Metadata)
State tracked while a coding-agent subprocess is running.
Fields:
session_id
(string,<thread_id>-<turn_id>
)thread_id
(string)turn_id
(string)codex_app_server_pid
(string or null)last_codex_event
(string/enum or null)last_codex_timestamp
(timestamp or null)last_codex_message
(summarized payload)codex_input_tokens
(integer)codex_output_tokens
(integer)codex_total_tokens
(integer)last_reported_input_tokens
(integer)last_reported_output_tokens
(integer)last_reported_total_tokens
(integer)turn_count
(integer)
- Number of coding-agent turns started within the current worker lifetime.
… or prose dumps of code:
8.3 Concurrency Control
Global limit:
available_slots = max(max_concurrent_agents - running_count, 0)
Per-state limit:
max_concurrent_agents_by_state[state]
if present (state key normalized)- otherwise fallback to global limit
The runtime counts issues by their current tracked state in the
running
map.8.4 Retry and Backoff
Retry entry creation:
- Cancel any existing retry timer for the same issue.
- Store
attempt
,identifier
,error
,due_at_ms
, and new timer handle.Backoff formula:
- Normal continuation retries after a clean worker exit use a short fixed delay of
1000
ms.- Failure-driven retries use
delay = min(10000 * 2^(attempt - 1), agent.max_retry_backoff_ms)
.- Power is capped by the configured max retry backoff (default
300000
/ 5m).Retry handling behavior:
- Fetch active candidate issues (not all issues).
- Find the specific issue by
issue_id
.- If not found, release claim.
- If found and still candidate-eligible:
- Dispatch if slots are available.
- Otherwise requeue with error
no available orchestrator slots
.- If found but no longer active, release claim.
… or sections added explicitly added to babysit the model's code generation, like this:
6.4 Config Fields Summary (Cheat Sheet)
This section is intentionally redundant so a coding agent can implement the config layer quickly.
tracker.kind
: string, required, currentlylinear
tracker.endpoint
: string, defaulthttps://api.linear.app/graphql
whentracker.kind=linear
- …
… or outright code1:
16. Reference Algorithms (Language-Agnostic)
16.1 Service Startup
function start_service(): configure_logging() start_observability_outputs() start_workflow_watch(on_change=reload_and_reapply_workflow) state = { poll_interval_ms: get_config_poll_interval_ms(), max_concurrent_agents: get_config_max_concurrent_agents(), running: {}, claimed: set(), retry_attempts: {}, completed: set(), codex_totals: {input_tokens: 0, output_tokens: 0, total_tokens: 0, seconds_running: 0}, codex_rate_limits: null } validation = validate_dispatch_config() if validation is not ok: log_validation_error(validation) fail_startup(validation) startup_terminal_workspace_cleanup() schedule_tick(delay_ms=0) event_loop(state)
I feel like it's pretty disingenuous for agentic coding advocates to market this as a substitute for code when the specification document reads like code (or in some cases is literally code).
Don't get me wrong: I'm not saying that specification documents should never include pseudocode or a reference implementation; those are both fairly common in specification work. However, you can't claim that specification documents are a substitute for code when they read like code.
I bring this up because I believe Symphony illustrates the first misconception well:
Misconception 1: specification documents are simpler than the corresponding code
If you try to make a specification document precise enough to reliably generate a working implementation you must necessarily contort the document into code or something strongly resembling code (like highly structured and formal English).
Dijkstra explains why this is inevitable:
We know in the meantime that the choice of an interface is not just a division of (a fixed amount of) labour, because the work involved in co-operating and communicating across the interface has to be added. We know in the meantime —from sobering experience, I may add— that a change of interface can easily increase at both sides of the fence the amount of work to be done (even drastically so). Hence the increased preference for what are now called "narrow interfaces". Therefore, although changing to communication between machine and man conducted in the latter's native tongue would greatly increase the machine's burden, we have to challenge the assumption that this would simplify man's life.
A short look at the history of mathematics shows how justified this challenge is. Greek mathematics got stuck because it remained a verbal, pictorial activity, Moslem "algebra", after a timid attempt at symbolism, died when it returned to the rhetoric style, and the modern civilized world could only emerge —for better or for worse— when Western Europe could free itself from the fetters of medieval scholasticism —a vain attempt at verbal precision!— thanks to the carefully, or at least consciously designed formal symbolisms that we owe to people like Vieta, Descartes, Leibniz, and (later) Boole.
Agentic coders are learning the hard way that you can't escape the "narrow interfaces" (read: code) that engineering labor requires; you can only transmute that labor into something superficially different which still demands the same precision.
Flakiness
Also, generating code from specifications doesn't even reliably work! I actually tried to do what the Symphony README suggested:
Tell your favorite coding agent to build Symphony in a programming language of your choice:
Implement Symphony according to the following spec: https://github.com/openai/symphony/blob/main/SPEC.md
I asked Claude Code to build Symphony in a programming language of my choice
(Haskell2, if you couldn't guess from the name of my blog) and it did not work.
You can find the result in my
Gabriella439/symphony-haskell
repository.
Not only were there multiple bugs (which I had to prompt Claude to fix and you
can find those fixes in the commit history), but even when things "worked"
(meaning: no error messages) the codex
agent just spun silently without
making any progress on the following sample Linear ticket:
Create a new blank repository
No need to create a GitHub project. Just create a blank
git
repository
In other words, Symphony's "vain attempt at verbal precision" (to use Dijkstra's words) still fails to reliably generate a working implementation3.
This problem also isn't limited to Symphony: we see this same problem even for well-known specifications like YAML. The YAML specification is extremely detailed, widely used, and includes a conformance test suite and the vast majority of YAML implementations still do not conform fully to the spec.
Symphony could try to fix the flakiness by expanding the specification but it's already pretty long, clocking in at 1/6 the size of the included Elixir implementation! If the specification were to grow any further they would recapitulate Borges's "On Exactitude in Science" short story:
…In that Empire, the Art of Cartography attained such Perfection that the map of a single Province occupied the entirety of a City, and the map of the Empire, the entirety of a Province. In time, those Unconscionable Maps no longer satisfied, and the Cartographers Guilds struck a Map of the Empire whose size was that of the Empire, and which coincided point for point with it. The following Generations, who were not so fond of the Study of Cartography as their Forebears had been, saw that that vast Map was Useless, and not without some Pitilessness was it, that they delivered it up to the Inclemencies of Sun and Winters. In the Deserts of the West, still today, there are Tattered Ruins of that Map, inhabited by Animals and Beggars; in all the Land there is no other Relic of the Disciplines of Geography.
Slop
Specification work is supposed to be harder than coding. Typically the reason we write specification documents before doing the work is to encourage viewing the project through a contemplative and critical lens, because once coding begins we switch gears and become driven with a bias to action.
So then why do I say that this is a misconception:
Misconception 2: specification work must be more thoughtful than coding work
The problem is that this sort of thoughtfulness is no longer something we can take for granted thanks to the industry push to reduce and devalue labor at tech companies. When you begin from the premise of "I told people specification work should be easier than coding" then you set yourself up to fail. There is no way that you can do the difficult and uncomfortable work that specification writing requires if you optimize for delivery speed. That's how you get something like the Symphony "specification" that looks superficially like a specification document but then falls apart under closer scrutiny.
In fact, the Symphony specification reads as AI-written slop. Section 10.5 is a particularly egregious example of the slop I'm talking about, such as this excerpt:
linear_graphql
extension contract:
Purpose: execute a raw GraphQL query or mutation against Linear using Symphony's configured tracker auth for the current session.
Availability: only meaningful when
tracker.kind == "linear"
and valid Linear auth is configured.Preferred input shape:
{ "query": "single GraphQL query or mutation document", "variables": { "optional": "graphql variables object" } }
query
must be a non-empty string.
query
must contain exactly one GraphQL operation.
variables
is optional and, when present, must be a JSON object.Implementations may additionally accept a raw GraphQL query string as shorthand input.
Execute one GraphQL operation per tool call.
If the provided document contains multiple operations, reject the tool call as invalid input.
operationName
selection is intentionally out of scope for this extension.Reuse the configured Linear endpoint and auth from the active Symphony workflow/runtime config; do not require the coding agent to read raw tokens from disk.
Tool result semantics:
- transport success + no top-level GraphQL
errors
->success=true
- top-level GraphQL
errors
present ->success=false
, but preserve the GraphQL response body for debugging- invalid input, missing auth, or transport failure ->
success=false
with an error payloadReturn the GraphQL response or error payload as structured tool output that the model can inspect in-session.
That is a grab bag of "specification-shaped" sentences that reads like an agent's work product: lacking coherence, purpose, or understanding of the bigger picture.
A specification document like this must necessarily be slop, even if it were authored by a human, because they're optimizing for delivery time rather than coherence or clarity. In the current engineering climate we can no longer take for granted that specifications are the product of careful thought and deliberation.
Conclusion
Specifications were never meant to be time-saving devices. If you are optimizing for delivery time then you are likely better off authoring the code directly rather than going through an intermediate specification document.
More generally, the principle of "garbage in, garbage out" applies here. There is no world where you input a document lacking clarity and detail and get a coding agent to reliably fill in that missing clarity and detail. Coding agents are not mind readers and even if they were there isn't much they can do if your own thoughts are confused.
Footnotes
-
If you're wondering why the code snippet isn't highlighted that's because I'm preserving the GitHub-flavored markdown exactly as I found it in the original document. All the code snippets are explicitly annotated as
text
(one of many signs that this document is AI-generated). In fact, this is likely an example of the model obeying the letter rather than the spirit of the request. I'm pretty sure what happened is the human asked the AI to convert an initial draft of the project to a prose specification and the AI decided that labeling the code snippets astext
made them more like prose rather than code. ↩ -
People often tell me "you would get better results if you generated code in a more mainstream language rather than Haskell" to which I reply: if the agent has difficulty generating Haskell code then that suggests agents aren't capable of reliably generalizing beyond their training data. ↩
-
You can also try this same exercise yourself if you think I held it wrong. ↩