Used by teams at
Share your dev environment with your team, and run your project on any machine with the exact same packages and configuration
Start by defining a list of packages and scripts for your project, and Devbox builds an isolated dev environment. No Docker or virtual machines required.
Devbox provides an approachable, intuitive interface for creating development environments with the Nix Package Manager, without the Nix language
Devbox is an open-source project built by Jetify with support from the community. Join the core team and thousands of developers who love Devbox
devbox shell
Just add the packages you need and start a Devbox shell. All your dependencies and packages in an isolated, ephemeral environment
Devbox provides a searchable index of over 400,000 versions of 80,000 packages powered by Nix, meaning you can find the exact package that you need
Install multiple runtime and package versions on a single machine without Docker or a VM. Use your default tools and settings with no extra config.
Devbox creates an isolated development environment based on your devbox.json in one step. No Dockerfiles or Nix required
Devbox lets you install and synchronize environments across your machines using Git. Eliminate developer onboarding and code from anywhere
Share config and packages between projects with Devbox Plugins. Automate package config so developers can start coding instantly
devbox.json
devbox services up
Devbox can do more than just bundle packages. You can also define and share scripts, services, and entire runbooks with a single JSON config
Devbox can define and run your project's services with process-compose. Spin up your entire dev environment with a single command
Devbox makes it easy to run scripts and tasks within the context of your shell. Run tasks in the same reproducible dev environment, locally or on your CI/CD system.
Using Devbox keeps your CI/CD and development environments in sync and reproducible and fast.
Use our Devbox Install Action to automatically configure Devbox, and install your packages. Your dev and CI environments will never diverge again.
Devbox can cache your Nix store automatically with the Github Actions Cache, so your environment setup is almost instantaneous.
devbox-workflow.yml
Your Devbox projects are fully portable, meaning you can run them locally, in a containerized environment, or on Jetify Devspace
Spin up your project in the cloud with Jetify Devspace. Try out Devspace using one of our Templates for free.
Easily generate a container for your project, so you can run your dev environment on any platform that supports Docker containers.
Jetify Cloud can deploy your Devbox project as an autoscaling web service. Define your project with either Devbox or Docker, and ship directly from Github.
Jetify Secrets provides easy and secure Secrets Management that automatically works with your Devbox Shells and Jetify Deploys.
Jetify's Private and Prebuilt Caches can share binaries and packages across all your projects and deployments. Stop rebuilding and start shipping
Get started with Devbox using one of our example projects. Get an isolated Python, NodeJS, Ruby, or Golang dev environment up and running on any operating system, or deploy a full Rails, PHP + Postgres, or Jekyll application anywhere
EVERYTHING YOU NEED
Trusted by Thousands of Developers
Devbox is trusted by thousands of developers, across a wide range of industries and use cases. Devbox can help your team, whether you're focused on cloud development, data science, or open source packaging
Our projects leverage Devbox to automate our dev environments. No more (outdated) getting started guides, missing dependencies, or "it works on my machine"... it runs anywhere including CI.
Mike Nikles
Founder, Webstone Technologies
With Devbox, it's been so easy to share developer environment with my instructors and other developers. They're truly portable and don't require Docker to run.
Tao Hansen
Developer Advocate, Garden.io
Onboarding new developers has never been easier and our CI/CD never looked cleaner. We highly recommend Devbox to any team looking to improve their development workflow.
George Antoniadis
Software Engineer, Nimona
Devbox helps solve your dev environment provisioning headaches, and keeps developers productive and focused on what matters.
Try new tools and frameworks without modifying your host machine. Install and run packages on demand, then delete the dev environment when finished.
Automate the setup and package installation for your dev environment with init hooks. Bundle common development tasks into reusable scripts
Devbox bundles your configuration with code, so you can preview branches or pull-requests for any repo. You can run preview environments in the browser with Devbox Cloud
Ramp up and onboard new developers without complicated shell scripts or guides. Just install Devbox, run devbox shell
, and get started coding
Use Devbox to reproduce your test environment across localhost and CI/CD build hosts. Use Github Actions to create workflows from your scripts
Devbox tracks the packages for each of your projects in an isolated and reproducible Nix shell. Develop isolated projects with conflicting dependencies on the same machine.
© 2024 Jetify Inc. All rights reserved.
Jetify Inc., formerly Jetpack Technologies Inc., is not associated with, sponsored by, or related to WordPress and WooCommerce.